---
{}
---

CF					UAE	C	0.0			In 2006, Ahmed won the 2006 Under 17 Gulf Cup of Nations with UAE U17, in which he was top scorer with five goals. Later in the same years, he joined the first team. The following season with Al-Ahli, Ahmed won his first club honour, the President Cup, and was the top scorer with four goals. In 2008, Ahmed won Super Cup and his first Pro-League 2008–09, and with UAE U20 won the AFC U-19 Championship 2008, and was named player of the tournament and the top scorer with four goals. He was named the most promising Arab Player of the Year by Al-Ahram and Al Hadath magazines and also Asian Young Footballer of the Year.[1][2][3][4] In 2009, Ahmed led UAE U20 to the Quarter-finals in the 2009 FIFA U-20 World Cup,[5] and scored two goals in the tournament, and was named for the second consecutive time Al-Ahram Most promising Arab player of the Year[6] and nominee of the Asian Young Footballer of the Year for two times.[7] In 2010, Ahmed continued his outstanding performance, by leading UAE Olympic football team. to win the 2010 Under 23 Gulf Cup of Nations by scoring five goals in the tournament and win the top scorer,[8] and for the first ever football silver medal in UAE history at the Asian Games[9] and scored three goals in the tournament. He was named the Best Young Athlete Player of the Year by Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum Creative Sports Award. Ahmed won the Asian Footballer of the Year in 2015 after leading his club to the final of the AFC Champions League and UAE to the third-place in the 2015 AFC Asian Cup.