---
{}
---

WD		Guardian		Barcelona, Chelsea	ESP	B	0.0			Born in Barcelona, Catalonia, Ferrer was a pacy and tough-tackling defender.[1] He began his professional career with FC Barcelona B, then served a loan with CD Tenerife in the 1989–90 season, with whom he made his La Liga debuts at the age of 19. Ferrer returned to the main squad the following summer, and became the club's first-choice right back, remaining as such for the following eight years and scoring once. He often partnered another club graduate, Sergi Barjuán, in the defensive wings. Ferrer was a key member of the famous Dream Team and, during his time with the Blaugrana, won five leagues, a European Cup, a UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, two domestic cups, four Supercups and two UEFA Super Cups. As the Dutch dominance at the Camp Nou in terms of players was still an important one (the club was coached by Louis van Gaal), Ferrer left in June 1998 amongst other club greats as Guillermo Amor, moving to Chelsea for £2.2 million and quickly establishing himself in the side, helping it qualify for its first ever Champions League campaign in his debut campaign. Chelsea won the FA Cup the following year (but he missed the final through injury) and reached the quarterfinals of the Champions League; during his team's run in the latter he played in 14 of 16 games, and scored his only goal for the Blues in a 2–0 win against Hertha BSC. A combination of injuries[4] and manager Gianluca Vialli's squad rotation policy reduced Ferrer's opportunities in the following season and he made only 14 league appearances. Chelsea reached another FA Cup final in 2002 – which he again missed, though this time through not being selected. Out of favour and facing strong competition from younger teammates he made just seven league appearances in his final two years, and left in May 2003 upon the expiry of his contract, playing 113 overall matches for the Londoners and retiring shortly after at 33. Ferrer was a Spanish international on 36 occasions. His debut came on 4 September 1991 in a friendly win with Uruguay in Oviedo, as La Roja eventually did not qualify for UEFA Euro 1992. Subsequently, Ferrer was a regular figure in the national side, appearing as starter at the 1994 FIFA World Cup and playing once in the 1998 edition, the 2–3 group stage loss against Nigeria, missing Euro 1996 and 2000 through injury[6] (with Barça teammate Sergi on the other flank in all these tournaments). In 1992, Ferrer was first-choice for the Olympic team that won the gold medal at the Summer Olympics, held in his hometown.