---
{}
---

CF		Striker			ITA	B	0.0	A quick and prolfiic forward with an excellent positional sense, who is skilled in the air, both with his head and acrobatically, Gilardino plays mainly as a striker who prefers to be served in the penalty area. This position allows him to leverage his skills, timing, opportunism, and ability to score goals and finish off chances by getting on the end of his team mates' crosses. Possessing good technique and an eye for goal, he is capable of shooting first time, but is also known for his ability to use his skills to protect the ball and to defend himself with his back to goal; he often uses this ability to provide depth to his team, holding up the ball and subsequently laying it off for team mates, providing them with assists. Gilardino is naturally right-footed, but in his early years at Parma, he was able to improve his ability with his left foot. A prolific goalscorer, in his early career, he was compared to Filippo Inzaghi due to his opportunism, positional sense, and eye for goal, while Christian Vieri described him as the fusion of both players.	Prolific, Diving, Serie A Footballer of the Year, Serie A	Gilardino currently holds the record for being the second youngest player to have scored 100 goals in Serie A, after José Altafini. With 175 Serie A goals, Gilardino is currently among the top 15 all-time scorers in Serie A history and ranks 3rd among active players after Francesco Totti and Antonio Di Natale. Gilardino has played for several Italian clubs throughout his career; he first came to prominence during his time at Parma, due to his consistent goalscoring, which earned him the Serie A Young Footballer of the Year Award in 2004, followed by the Serie A Footballer of the Year and the Serie A Italian Footballer of the Year Awards in 2005, as well as a move to Milan. With Milan, he won the 2006–07 UEFA Champions League, the 2007 UEFA Super Cup and the 2007 FIFA Club World Cup. Gilardino has also played for Chinese club Guangzhou Evergrande, with whom he won the 2014 Chinese Super League. Gilardino has represented Italy at under-19, under-20, under-21, and senior levels. Gilardino was a part of the Italian side that won the 2004 UEFA U-21 Championship where he became the tournament's leading goalscorer. He was also named as the best player of the tournament, and one of two strikers in the UEFA Team of the Tournament. Later that year, he also won a bronze medal with Italy at the 2004 Summer Olympics. He is the all-time top scorer of the Italy U-21 national team with 19 goals in 30 appearances. At senior level, he was part of the 2006 FIFA World Cup winning-squad, and has also participated at the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup, the 2010 FIFA World Cup, and 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup, where he won a bronze medal.