---
{}
---
	Russia	CF	19 March 1991 (age 32)	Russia Spartak Moscow	2021	2024	10	0	
CF					RUS	C	0.0			He made his debut for the senior FC Dynamo Moscow team on 4 October 2008 – Dynamo was decimated by injuries and was losing to FC Saturn Moscow Oblast 0-1 at the halftime when Kokorin came on as a substitute. With 18 minutes to go Kokorin scored an equalizer (Dynamo went on to win 2-1). He became the youngest player to score a goal for Dynamo in the Russian Premier League (17 years 199 days). He scored a winning goal in a 1:0 victory over FC Lokomotiv Moscow in his second game as a starter on 3 November 2008. On 29 July 2009, he scored the winning goal in a 1–0 win against Celtic F.C. in the first leg of their third qualifying round tie in the UEFA Champions League in Glasgow. At the end of the 2012-13 season he entered the Top 33 players list as the No. 1 Left Striker. On 4 July 2013 Kokorin agreed personal terms with Anzhi Makhachkala after the club had triggered his €19 million release clause.[4] However, before he could play a single official game for Anzhi (he was out of commission due to injury at the time of his signing), on 6 August, following restructuring of Anzhi at business level, the whole squad was put up for sale, including new signing Kokorin. The next day, Yuri Zhirkov, Igor Denisov and Kokorin were all transferred to Dynamo for an undisclosed fee. On 30 January 2016, he moved from Dynamo to FC Zenit Saint Petersburg. Kokorin was a part of the Russia U-21 side that was competing in the 2011 European Under-21 Championship qualification.[6] Kokorin was called up to the Russia national football team for a friendly against Greece in November 2011 and made his national team debut in that game on the 11th, a 1–1 draw in Piraeus. He played two games at UEFA Euro 2012 as Russia failed to pass the group stages. He scored his first national team goal on 11 September 2012 in a 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Israel, which finished as a 4–0 victory at the Ramat Gan Stadium. On 2 June 2014, he was included in Russia's 2014 FIFA World Cup squad.[9] He scored Russia's goal in their 1–1 final group match draw with Algeria, as the team was knocked out by the North African side. Kokorin scored three times in Russia's successful UEFA Euro 2016 qualifying, concluding on 12 October 2015 with a penalty in their last game, a 2–0 win over Montenegro at the Otkrytie Arena which sealed Russia's place at the expense of Sweden.