---
{}
---

CF					ITA	C	0.0	"Nicknamed Spillo (""Needle"") for his slender build", Altobelli was a prolific goalscorer, and he became one of the greatest and most effective Italian strikers of the late 1970s and 1980s. A well rounded centre-forward, he excelled in the air due to his heading and acrobatiic ability; he was also a fast and opportunistic player with good technique and an accurate shot. Altobelli is currently the all-time top scorer in the Coppa Italia, with 56 goals in 93 appearances.	Prolific	Following spells at Latina (Serie C) and Brescia (Serie B), he was signed by Serie A giants Internazionale, for whom he played 466 times, scoring 209 goals (128 in Serie A). He contributed heavily to his team's scudetto victory of 1980, and also helped Inter to win two Coppa Italia titles in 1978 and 1982, finishing as the tournament's top scorer in the 1982 edition, scoring 9 goals. Altobelli was also the top scorer in the 1978–79 European Cup Winners' Cup, with 7 goals, leading Inter to the quarter-finals. After his lengthy period with Inter, he played one season with Juventus during the 1987–88 season, before ending his career with Brescia in Serie B once again, during the 1989–90 season. For Italy, Altobelli was capped 61 times between 1980 and 1988, scoring 25 goals, and he is currently Italy's sixth highest goalscorer.[3] His most notable international goal was Italy's third goal in the 1982 FIFA World Cup final, which Italy over West Germany.[3] He became the second ever substitute to score in a FIFA World Cup final (after Dick Nanninga in 1978 and with Rudi Völler and Mario Götze repeating this, in 1986 and in 2014, respectively). Altobelli also played at Euro 80, where Italy reached the semi-finals, finishing in fourth place on home soil, as well as representing Italy at the 1986 FIFA World Cup, scoring 4 goals, which were, however, not enough to prevent the defending champions from crashing out of the tournament in the round of 16. He also represented Italy at Euro 88, where he played as the team's captain, leading the Italian squad to the semi-finals once again. He made 4 substitute appearances scoring just after coming on in a 2–0 win over Denmark in the group stages.