---
position: CF
class: Creator
model: Fantasista
club: inactive
nation: ITA
tier: A
---

Due to his creative style of play, eye for goal, flair, and technical skill, "Del Piero is known as a ""fantasista"" in Italy.

His hard-working playing style is regarded by critics as creative in attacking", assisting many goals as well as scoring himself, "as opposed to just ""goal poaching"".

Because of his technical characteristics, Del Piero usually plays as a supporting-striker, which is his preferred role, although he is a versatile forward who is capable of playing anywhere along the front line. He has also occasionally been deployed between the midfield and the strikers as a playmaking attacking midfielder, known in Italy as the trequartista position, due to his vision, passing range, ball control, dribbling ability (in particular in one on one situations) and creativity, although he has stated that this is not his preferred position.

Del Piero was also employed occasionally as a winger throughout his career, in particular during his time under Sacchi with the Italy national football team, due to his tendency to drift onto the wings, and his crossing accuracy, as well as his ability with both feet. 

In his youth, "Del Piero played in the ""trident-attack"" of Lippi's 4–3–3 formation", along with veterans Vialli, Baggio, and Ravanelli, as a striker, or as an outside forward. With the arrival of Zidane in the advanced midfield playmaking role, Juventus's formation changed, and Del Piero partnered alongside a more offensive striker up front, such as Christian Vieri and subsequently Inzaghi, as a supporting forward.

After losing some pace and agility following his injury in 1998, Del Piero performed a muscle strengthening regime, and he took on a more creative role in a combination with Zidane behind the main striker Inzaghi under Ancelotti. 

As Juventus's playing style changed during Lippi's second stint with Juventus starting in 2001, and subsequently under Capello, Del Piero partnered with Zidane's replacement, Nedvěd, in a free creative role in front of the midfield, or occasionally on the left flank, as a supporting striker, with Trezeguet upfront. Del Piero is a free kick and penalty kick (62 goals from penalties) specialist. He is the third highest scorer of penalties in Serie A history, scoring 50 times out of 61 attempts, behind only Francesco Totti and Roberto Baggio. Del Piero's unique free kick technique is usually characterised by a curling strike which rises high over the wall, 6 goals in Italy national team). He is also the third all-time highest goalscorer of free kicks in Serie A, with 22 goals, "behind only Andrea Pirlo and Siniša Mihajlović. The football media refer to a ""Del Piero Zone"" (""Gol alla Del Piero"" in Italian)", a style of scoring involving a dribbling approach from the left flank, followed by a precise, curling lob into the far top corner of the goal, from outside the area. This association came about as Del Piero had scored several goals in this manner during his first two seasons under Lippi, in particular during Juventus's victorious 1995–96 Champions League campaign; Del Piero continued to score similar goals throughout his career, and the ""Del Piero Zone""  has also been used to describe similar goals by other players."

A technically gifted, and creative supporting forward, who is also a free-kick specialist, Del Piero is widely regarded by players, pundits, and managers as one of the greatest players of his generation, and as one of the best Italian players of all time, winning the Serie A Italian Footballer of the Year award in 1998 and 2008. A prolific goal-scorer, he is currently the second highest all-time Italian top-scorer in all competitions, with 346 goals, and behind only Silvio Piola, with 390 goals.

After beginning his career with Padova, he played with Juventus F.C. for 19 seasons (11 as captain), and holds the club records for most goals (290) and appearances (705). During his time at the club, he won 6 Serie A titles, the Coppa Italia, 4 Supercoppa Italiana titles, the UEFA Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup, the UEFA Intertoto Cup, and the Intercontinental Cup. After leaving the club in 2012, he also spent two seasons with Australian side Sydney FC; he retired after a season with Delhi Dynamos FC in the Indian Super League, in 2014. Del Piero has scored in every competition in which he has participated.

In 2004, he was named in the FIFA 100, a list of the 125 greatest living footballers selected by Pelé as a part of FIFA's centenary celebrations.

In the same year, he was also voted into the UEFA Golden Jubilee Poll, a list of the 50 best European players of the past 50 years. Along with six awards in Italy for gentlemanly conduct, he has also won the Golden Foot award, which pertains to personality as well as playing ability. Del Piero has also represented the Italian national team at three FIFA World Cups and four UEFA European Football Championships, most notably winning the 2006 FIFA World Cup, and reaching the final of UEFA Euro 2000 with Italy. He is the joint 4th highest scorer for the Italian national team, with 27 goals in 91 appearances, alongside Roberto Baggio, and behind Silvio Piola with 30 goals, Giuseppe Meazza with 33 goals, and Luigi Riva with 35 goals.


Garrincha	WF		Creator	Flea	Santos	BRA	B	80.9	His greatest gift was undoubtedly his mesmerising dribbling skills, sometimes even going back to players he had already beaten to take them on again. Garrincha was also a superb crosser of the ball and capable of scoring spectacular goals from long range. Despite his height, he was also surprisingly strong in the air. “The Little Bird” Garrincha is regarded as the greatest winger and dribbler the world has ever seen. As a right-winger, he was known for his remarkable ball control, imagination, Acceleration, crossing, dribbling skills and ability to create something from nothing, He also possessed a ferocious shot with either foot and was a gifted dead ball specialist known for free kicks and corners taken with the outside of his foot.		Considered by many to be the finest dribbler in the history of football, Brazilian star Garrincha played a pivotal role in his country's triumphs in the 1958 and 1962 World Cups. A flying right-winger who was able to score or create goals almost at will, he overcame a number of physical problems to become one of the most popular players Brazil has ever produced, although his often controversial off-field lifestyle contributed to his early death. Garrincha, real name Manuel Francisco dos Santos, was born in Pau Grande in Rio de Janeiro state on 28 October 1933. He earned his nickname, meaning 'little bird' as a result of his relatively small stature, growing to little over 5'6" (167cm). He was born with atwisted spine and several problems with his legs, one being several centimetres shorter than the other and both being crooked, but still displayed a considerable talent for football from an early age. His impact was immediate, dazzling experienced defenders with his skills in training and scoring a hat-trick on his first team debut in the summer of 1953. Many eminent football historians in Brazil and around the world refer to him being at least the equal of Pelé , was rated by many as the second greatest Brazilian footballer of all-time. He grew up in poverty with high right leg 6 cm shorter than the left. Rather than shying away from soccer after a childhood illness left his right leg bowing inward while the left bowed outward, he developed a devastating body swerve that mocked his body’s special anatomy. Garrincha’s best career highlight was happened in World Cup 1962 which he could fulfill Brazilian after Pele was out of tournament because of injury. For his all matches in World Cup, Brazil only lost one match with him on the pitch. He scored around 242 goals in his club career. He was voted 8th and 20th the greatest footballer of the century from IFFHS and World Soccer’s poll, respectively, was voted 6th the best player in world cup history by France Football.