---
{}
---

CF				Betis	ESP	C	0.0	Good heading ability despite not reaching 180 cm.		Alfonso was born in Getafe, in the outskirts of Madrid. In 1990, aged just 18, he made his professional debuts with Real Madrid and, although he never carved a regular place in the starting XI (playing mostly as understudy to club great Emilio Butragueño and then Iván Zamorano), helped the capital side to the 1995 national championship.In that summer, Alfonso signed with Real Betis: in his second season at the Manuel Ruiz de Lopera, he scored 25 La Liga goals which was the most goals ever scored by a player in a season in the club's history. Teaming up with Pier, the pair combined for 60 first division goals from 1995 to 1997, and helped the Andalusia club finish fourth in the latter. FC Barcelona signed Alfonso for the 2000–01 campaign, and the player had a difficult time adjusting at Camp Nou, netting only twice in his first year and serving an unsuccessful loan spell at French League's Olympique de Marseille in January 2002 – alongside Real Madrid midfielder Alberto Rivera – where he once again failed to shine. Barça then loaned Alfonso to former club Betis, which signed him permanently at the end of the season. After another two seasons where he struggled with injuries and loss of form (ten scoreless games in 2004–05), he retired from football when his contract expired in June 2005, having scored more than 100 official goals during his career; he subsequently returned to Real Madrid, joining its veterans' team.Alfonso appeared in 38 international games for Spain, making his debut in a friendly match against England on 9 September 1992, in Santander.  The most important of his 11 goals was scored against Yugoslavia in UEFA Euro 2000: Spain were losing 3–2 in injury time, needing a win to qualify from the group at Norway's expense. In the 90th minute the national team won a penalty, which was converted by Gaizka Mendieta. With seconds remaining, Alfonso volleyed a spectacular shot past Ivica Kralj for his second of the game and the win. Alfonso also appeared in all of the nation's matches at Euro 1996, including the match against Bulgaria which he netted the equalizer after just one minute on the pitch. Additionally, he played in two 1998 FIFA World Cup contests. Alfonso was also a member of the national team that won the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona.