---
{}
---

	CF	Inventive	Creator	Virtuoso	Real Madrid	ARG	S	87.3	As in Argentina, he was a prolific goalscorer and nominally played as a centre-forward but moved far deeper than many others in that role. His speed, stamina and versatility made him one of the players to fulfil the role of the modern 'box-to-box' midfielder.  He was able to track back and help out the defence, start a counter attack and then get upfield into a goalscoring position himself. He was blessed with a wide range of talents and could play in a variety of positions with equal skill, leading a number of his contemporaries to view him as the most complete player of all time. Powerful forward with great stamina, tactical versatility, and vision, who could also play almost anywhere on the pitch.	Speed, stamina, versatility, box-to-box, completeness, vision, composure, pace, a silken touch, strength, two-footedness, outrageous skills, a rifle of a shot, arrogance, swagger, languid style and determination to keep the ball	Argentine footballer and coach, who has been called the best, most complete and influential footballer of all time. He was most associated with Real Madrid and was instrumental in their domination of the European Champions' Cup during the 1950s, a period in which the club won the trophy in five consecutive seasons from 1956. Along with Francisco Gento and José María Zárraga, he was one of only three players to play a part in all five victories, scoring goals in each of the five finals. Di Stéfano played international football mostly for Spain, but he also played for Argentina and Colombia. Di Stéfano, nicknamed "Saeta rubia" ("Blond Arrow"), was a powerful, quick, skilful, and prolific forward, with great stamina, tactical versatility, creativity, and vision, who could also play almost anywhere on the pitch. He is currently the sixth highest scorer in the history of Spain's top division, and Real Madrid's third highest league goalscorer of all time, with 216 goals in 282 league matches between 1953 and 1964. He is Madrid's leading goalscorer in the history of El Clásico. In November 2003, to celebrate UEFA's Jubilee, he was selected as the Golden Player of Spain by the Royal Spanish Football Federation as their most outstanding player of the past 50 years. In 2004 he was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players (in September 2009, he said Di Stéfano was the best Argentinian player "ever"). He was voted fourth, behind Pelé, Diego Maradona, and Johan Cruyff, in a vote organized by France Football magazine which consulted their former Ballon d'Or winners to elect the Football Player of the Century. Pelé, Eusébio, Luis Suárez, Sandro Mazzola and John Charles described Di Stéfano as "the most complete footballer in the history of the game".
