---
{}
---

CM					AUT	C	0.0	One of Austria’s all-time best players, Andreas Herzog was a classic representative of the old Viennese school of football, who was always playing on a consistently high level, lacked was mental toughness, probably the main reason why he failed in his one season at Bayern during the mid-1990s. Placid Bremen was a place where he blossomed and he quickly returned to Werder in 1996 where he soon recovered from the nightmarish Bayern episode.	Through Balls	"Born in Vienna, Herzog started his career at local giants Rapid Vienna, but was sent out on loan to city rivals First Vienna during 1987–88. That move proved to be successful and he was soon recalled to Rapid to start the 1988–89 season. He made his name at Rapid in the next years to secure a move to Bundesliga side Werder Bremen where he would spend eight years, divided in two periods by a season at Bayern Munich where he won the UEFA Cup, beating Girondins de Bordeaux in a two-legged final. After returning to Rapid in 2002, he decided to end his career with Major League Soccer franchise Los Angeles Galaxy in 2004. Under head coach, Sigi Schmid, Herzog played well but following a mid-season coaching change, he saw his playing time decrease and at the end of the season, Herzog announced his retirement from football on 10 November 2004.  He captained the Rapid Wien side and was chosen in Rapid's Team of the Century in 1999.
 Herzog made his debut for Austria in an April 1988 friendly match against Greece and was a participant at the 1990 and 1998 World Cups, scoring one goal in the latter tournament, a spot kick against Italy. He earned 103 caps, scoring 26 goals,[6] making him Austria's most capped player of all-time. Herzog surpassed striker Anton Polster in May 2002 when winning his 96th cap against Germany. His last international was an April 2003 friendly match against Scotland."