WF				PSG	ARG	A	0.0	Di María is a quick, tricky and talented winger who is also capable of playing as a more central attacking midfielder or on either side of the pitch, although he is predominantly a left-footed player.[85] In recent years, he has even been deployed to great effect as a central midfielder, in particular under Carlo Ancelotti's tenure with Real Madrid.[86] Di María is an agile, creative and highly technical player who possesses excellent dribbling skills and ball control, as well as great pace, stamina and acceleration, attributes which allow him to beat players easily in one-on-one situations. He is also gifted with excellent vision, passing and crossing ability, which allow him to function effectively as a playmaker and as an assist provider, although he is also capable of scoring goals himself. Despite not being physically imposing, he is also a very hard-working player, and he improved on the defensive aspect of his game under manager José Mourinho.		Argentine professional footballer who plays for French club Paris Saint-Germain and the Argentina national team. He can play as either a winger or attacking midfielder. After beginning his career with Rosario Central, Di María moved to Europe in 2007 to play for Benfica, earning a €25 million move to Real Madrid three years later. After winning the Champions League with Real Madrid, he signed for Manchester United in 2014 for a British record £59.7 million, but joined PSG a year later for around £44 million. A full international for Argentina since 2008, Di María has earned over 70 caps for his country. He scored the goal that won the country gold at the 2008 Olympics, and has also represented them at two FIFA World Cups and two Copa América tournaments.