---
{}
---

CF					ITA	C	0.0	He was capable of playing as a centre-forward as well as in an attacking midfield role, or also as a winger. He represented the Italian national football team at the 1962 FIFA World Cup. Despite lacking pace, he was a strong, creative and intelligent player with excellent technical ability; throughout his career, he was known for his tactical versatility and determination, as well as his capability to take part in and initiate attacking plays due to his passing ability.		Before moving to Italy to play in Serie A, where he would spend most of his professional life, Sormani began his club career in his home country of Brazil, where he initially played for Santos Futebol Clube; he was initially used as a backup striker to Pelé, but despite this limitation, he was able to move into the starting line-up due to his versatility, and his ability to adapt to any position along the front line. After moving to Italy, Sormani made his Serie A debut with A.C. Mantova in 1961, spending two seasons with the club (1961-63), where he displayed his talent and potential, earning the nickname "the white Pelé". He subsequently attracted the attention of larger clubs, and he moved to A.S. Roma for the 1963-94 season, for an at the time world record of 500 million Lire in 1963, in addition to 250 million more, including the value of the three players Mantova received from Roma in exchange: Torbjörn Jonsson, Elvio Salvori, and Karl-Heinz Schnellinger. During the single season he spent with the capital club, he won the Coppa Italia, although he was unable to display consistently the talent he had demonstrated whilst playing at Mantova. After a difficult season, Savoldi spent the 1964-65 season with U.C. Sampdoria, where he also struggled, before moving to A.C. Milan in 1965, where he flourished, and achieved notable domestic and international success. During his time at Milan, he finally fulfilled his potential and established himself as one of the league's top players, winning the 1967–68 Serie A title, the Coppa Italia during the 1966-67 season, the 1967–68 European Cup Winners' Cup, the 1968–69 European Cup, and the 1969 Intercontinental Cup. After his successful time with Milan, in 1970, he moved to S.S.C. Napoli for two seasons, before spending the 1972-73 season with Fiorentina. He moved to Vicenza Calcio in 1973, where he spent three seasons, before ending his career in 1976. Despite being born in Brazil, Sormani made 7 appearances and scored 2 goals for the Italy national football team between 1962 and 1963,[2] after obtaining Italian citizenship due to his Italian origins;[1] he represented Italy at the 1962 FIFA World Cup in Chile, where they were eliminated in the first round.