---
{}
---

CM		Presence	General	Bayern Munich	GER	A	78.9	Versatile		German professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for English club Manchester United and the Germany national team. A right-footed player, he usually plays as central midfielder. Earlier in his career, he primarily played as a wide midfielder. On 2 September 2014, Schweinsteiger was named captain of the national team following Philipp Lahm's international retirement. He spent 13 seasons at Bayern Munich, playing in exactly 500 matches across all competitions and scoring 67 goals. His honours at the club include eight Bundesliga titles, seven DFB-Pokal titles, a UEFA Champions League title, a FIFA Club World Cup title and two DFB-Ligapokals.[4] He joined Manchester United in 2015. Since making his international debut in 2004, he has earned over 100 caps for Germany, scoring 23 goals. He was selected in their squads for three European Championships and as many World Cups, including their victory at the 2014 FIFA World Cup.
Carlos Valderrama	CM	Calm	Playmaker	Train	OM	COL	A	86.4	"Although Valderrama was known for being a ""classic number ten"" playing behind the forwards", as was typical of South American sides of that era, in reality, Valderrama was tactically speaking a natural deep-lying playmaker, which is a fundamentally different role than that of the traditional attacking midfielder.[14] Valderrama's instantly striking features were, of course, his hair, but perhaps more importantly, his agility and very quick and electric feet; his footwork was similar to that of much smaller and shorter players, which for a player of Valderrama's build and height is not a common physical feature. Although his vision and passing ability were considered to be no lesser than the best European players of the time, it was his balance and ability to shield the ball that differentiated him from most of his peers; his ball retention ability was always the subject of praise, not only effective from a practical stand point, but also unique from an aesthetic stand point, which marked out Valderrama as an interesting player to watch. In that respect, former French defender Laurent Blanc, who played with Valderrama in Montpellier, described Valderrama perhaps more accurately than anyone else, when he said “In the fast and furious European game he wasn’t always at his ease. He was a natural exponent of ‘toque’, but in reality his strongest attributes were his ball retention ability and his aesthetic value as an artistic entertainer, which Laurent Blanc described so concisely and yet so accurately. Valderrama's passing was highly accurate and versatile to the point where he held a consistent rate of assists, and was often involved in plays that often related to goals. This also involved free kicks, whether supporting his teammates, or attempts on goal. His creativity made him very influential, to the point where he became a known legend throughout South America, and eventually throughout the world of football. Aside from his passing talents, Valderrama held very precise ball-control and dribbling abilities that were supported by quick reactions, and his disciplined mindset. This allowed him to perform impressive plays that have been highlighted throughout his career. A team-player, Valderrama was also known to be an extremely selfless player for both club, and nation. One of his most impressive moments, was during the 1990 FIFA World Cup last group stage match against Germany. In a game where Colombia needed at least a draw to survive into the next round, Pierre Littbarski scored what appeared to be the winning goal in the 88th minute. However, within the last seconds of extra time, Valderrama made a crucial pass to Freddy Rincon who equalized immediately and saved Colombia into the next round		September 2, 1961 in Santa Marta, Colombia), also known as El Pibe ("The Kid") is a Colombian former football player. His distinctive blond hair, coupled with his flamboyant technique on the ball, made him one of Colombia's most recognizable footballers, and arguably, one of the most recognizable footballers around the globe historically. Valderrama was a member of the Colombia national football team in the 1990s. Between 1985 and 1998 he represented Colombia in 111 full internationals and scored 11 times, making him the most capped player in the country's history. Valderrama was known for the accuracy of his passing and assisting, his vision and tactical brain, which allowed him to have a strong presence without the necessity of running as much as it would be expected, his precise technique on the ball, and his clean assists.[3][4][5] Valderrama played a huge role during the golden era of Colombian football during the 1990s. In 2004, Valderrama was included in the FIFA 100, a list of "greatest living footballers" chosen by Pelé to celebrate the 100th anniversary of FIFA. At the end of his career Valderrama played in Major League Soccer joining the league in its first season. The most recognisable player in the league at the time, he helped popularise the league during the 1990s and attract other foreign footballers to ply their trade in the league. To this day, he is an icon as one of the most decorated playmakers to ever play in MLS.