---
{}
---

WF		Creator	Fantasista		ITA	B	79.0	Normally a winger in midfield or in the offensive line, Conti was among the best players in the world during his prime, and is regarded as one of Italy's greatest wingers. Despite being left footed, he was capable of playing on either flank, and also as an attacking midfielder, although he was usually deployed on the right. A quick, dynamic, creative, and hard-working player, with excellent technical ability, he was renowned for his pace, dribbling skills, Vision, Press Resistant, and crossing ability, which made him an excellent assist provider. Due to his speed, stamina, control, and his ability with both feet, he was capable of beating players on the run, as well as during one on one situations, with feints; he also had an excellent positional sense, and he excelled at making attacking runs to lose his markers. Despite not being prolific in front of goal throughout his career, also due to his creative role in his team, he also possessed a powerful and accurate shot from distance with both feet. Conti is regarded as one of the greatest Italian players of his generation, and as one of Roma's best ever players. Bruno Conti is rated as one of the greatest players in history of AS Roma club. He was famous with his performance in World Cup 1982, was the second best attacker only to Paulo Rossi in that team. He could play as both left and right-winger well due to his great in both feet. Among the best in the world during his time, Conti was extremely fast, a great passer and a phenomenal dribbler. In the late career, He was loan to Genoa and played two seasons for them. He was chosen as a starter in All-Time AS Roma and Italy national team by many journalists in www.channel4.com. All in all, Conti is regarded as Italy’s greatest winger of all-time and the best winger in the world during the early 1980s. He was voted 5th European footballer of the year in 1982.		