---
{}
---

CD		Centre Back			AUT	C	0.0	A libero of great charisma, the tall Austrian always looked like a bored general on the pitch who went on about his job with a certain nonchalance and effortlessness. While his playing style may have looked arrogant, all he did was doing his job extremely well. Due to his great reading of the game and outstanding positioning, Pezzey hardly ever had to tackle, his heading was supreme as was his ball control and technique. He had a habit of chipping balls. Pezzey, who was very athletic and an intimidating physical presence died aged 39 from sudden cardiac death during an ice hockey game.		Regarded as one of Austria's greatest defenders of all time, Pezzey started his professional career at local side FC Vorarlberg and moved to FC Wacker Innsbruck after only one season, winning two league titles and a domestic cup. The sweeper then joined Eintracht Frankfurt in 1978, winning the UEFA Cup and a DFB-Pokal. Four seasons with Werder Bremen did not bring him any silverware (but runner-up to the league title twice) and he returned to Innsbruck in 1987 to win two league titles and a domestic cup again. He made his debut for Austria in June 1975 against Czechoslovakia and was a participant at the 1978 FIFA World Cup and 1982 FIFA World Cup.[1] In the latter tournament, he scored Austria's first goal in the 2–2 draw with Northern Ireland in Madrid. He earned 84 caps, scoring nine goals, still ranked fifth with Friedrich Koncilia in Austria's all-time appearances list.[2] His final international appearance was an August 1990 friendly match against Switzerland.