---
{}
---

CF	Aggressive	Finisher	Toro	Man Utd, Man City, West Ham	ARG	A	87.3	Tevez is a quick, tenacious, powerful, hard-working, dynamic, and versatile forward. A technical, tactically intelligent, and creative player, with an eye for goal, Tevez is capable of playing as a striker, as a winger, or even as a supporting forward, or as an attacking midfielder, due his finishing and positioning, as well as his vision and passing ability, which enable him to provide assists for team-mates as well as score goals himself. Due to his pace, strength, work-rate, and stamina, Tevez is also extremely useful when possession is lost, and he excels at pressing opponents, aiding his team to win back the ball and start attacking plays, making him effective both defensively and offensively. Tevez is also a skilled dribbler, and he possesses an accurate and powerful shot from distance; he is also an accurate penalty kick and free-kick taker	Premier League Golden Boot	His energy, skill, and goal scoring rate have made him an indispensable player for his club sides throughout his career, in the eyes of fellow players and media alike. Tevez began his career with Boca Juniors, winning the Copa Libertadores and Intercontinental Cup in 2003 before moving to Corinthians where he won the Brasileiro. In 2006 he moved to West Ham United, helping the team remain in the Premier League in his only season. Tevez's prolonged transfers to West Ham and Manchester United were plagued by issues regarding third-party ownership by Media Sports Investment, and their resulting sagas paved changes to both Premier League and FIFA regulations. Tevez transferred to Manchester United in 2007 and in his two years won several trophies including two league titles and the Champions League. In 2009 he joined Manchester City for £47 million, becoming the first player to move between the two rival clubs since Terry Cooke in 1999. Despite missing four months of the 2011–12 season following a dispute, Tevez returned to help City win their first league title in 44 years. In 2013, he joined Juventus for £12 million, finishing as the team's top goalscorer and winning the Scudetto in his first season. After winning a domestic double and reaching the Champions League final in his second season, he returned to Boca Juniors in June 2015 where he won another domestic double, becoming the first footballer to win two domestic league and cup doubles in one calendar year. Since his debut for Argentina in 2005, Tevez has over 75 caps. A gold medal winner at the 2004 Olympics, he also played at two World Cups, a Confederations Cup, and four Copa América tournaments.