CM	Reliable	Guardian	Anchor	Real Madrid	BRA	A	90.0	he admitted: “When he left we missed Makélélé. He was the only one who always, kept his position. He never went. Never. He knew what he was doing, and he was the reference point for the team.” Casemiro, Zidane recognised, before heading to São Paulo, he is recognised as a necessity. It helps that there is no one else. “Casemiro is a positional midfielder ... and the only one they have, ” Toril said. There is something eloquent in those words; even with his limitations, not least because this squad has limitations, too. He may not be perfect, but at least he is there: diligent and disciplined. No one else can fulfil his role and no one else really wants to, giving balance, ” Benítez said of him. “He fights for the ball and helps the central defenders. If the team attacks and exposes itself, it needs a player like Casemiro; he helps to sustain the system.” The system, not himself. He is, Emilia Landulce noted in El Mundo, like Pepe in García Lorca’s play La Casa de Bernarda Alba: he never actually appears but he, the object of the daughters’ desires, is always there. As his former Porto manager Julen Lopetegui says: “He’s strong in the challenge, of 10 challenges he wins nine, he’s intense, he is very conscious of his limitations and his qualities. Tactically he was very good, always right alongside the defenders when they needed him: cCentre-backs adore him. In a team that attacks a lot, that looks to play in the opposition’s half, that has a lot of players in front of the ball, he’s a basic need.” Lopetegui’s fitness coach described him as “an octopus”. Toril says his “chubby” face should not fool anyone: he is “very professional”. Casemiro has improved on the ball, too; he reads the game better and has learned to position himself, angling his body in a way that minimises his weaknesses, allowing him to release the ball more quickly. Where once he might take three touches, relatively easy prey to teams pressuring him, he moves it on more quickly now. Or avoids trouble entirely. When he drops to face his own goal, more often than not he does not receive the ball at all and does not intend to either: the movement is designed, instead, to draw the opposition in, opening passing lines to Luka Modric and Toni Kroos. “He is excellent playing facing the game: his switching of play, his inside passing, ” Lopetegui explains. “It is harder with your back to goal and he’s worked on improving that; he also avoids finding himself in that position. He’s very conscious of his qualities but also his limitations, so he disguises them. He’s intelligent and that intelligence comes with humility.” Benítez would agree; he called him a “listener”. “It was a joy to coach him; he listens, ” Lopetegui says. “His secret is the desire to improve, his willingness to adapt. He is everyone’s partner, helping them out: making adjustments, watching everything.”		