---
{}
---

CF	Elegant	Striker	Swan	Man Utd, Tottenham	BUL	B	78.2	Berbatov is known for his footballing intelligence, technical ability and composure; in particular, "his unhurried stance in front of goal has been described by The Scotsman's Tom Lappin as ""elegant and calm"". He also possesses exceptional precision when passing and shooting", and takes his time when on attack in order to ensure the best move possible. As such, he is often used as a deep-lying centre forward, receiving passes from the midfield, who intended for Berbatov to complement the combative and busy style of their English striker Wayne Rooney. Whereas Rooney is known for exerting himself vigorously for the entirety of a match, Berbatov employs a more laid-back and composed style, and because of this is sometimes criticised by observers who interpret this as laziness. On signing for Manchester United, Berbatov attracted comparisons with former United forward Eric Cantona, not only because of his languid and impeccable touch, but also because of his bravado and perceived arrogance. Berbatov is, however, capable of adapting his style to play more directly when required; in April 2010, for example, with Rooney absent, Berbatov gave a performance against his former side Tottenham which, in James Ducker's words, "was as if he had ""decided to take it upon himself to impersonate the England striker"". Combining uncharacteristic determination and effort with his regular technical skill", he contributed to the first Manchester United goal and helped United to a 3–1 victory	Premier League Golden Boot	He captained the Bulgaria national team from 2006 to 2010, and is the country's all-time leading goalscorer. He has also won the Bulgarian Footballer of the Year a record seven times, surpassing the number of wins by Hristo Stoichkov. Born in Blagoevgrad, Berbatov started out with home-town club Pirin before joining CSKA Sofia as a 17-year-old in 1998. He was signed by Bayer Leverkusen of Germany in January 2001 and played in his first Champions League final 18 months later, coming on as a substitute in the 2002 UEFA Champions League Final, which Leverkusen lost 2–1 to Real Madrid. After five-and-a-half years with Leverkusen, he joined English club Tottenham Hotspur in July 2006, where he spent two years before moving to Manchester United. He played in his second Champions League final in 2009, during his side's 2–0 defeat against Barcelona. After four seasons with United he joined Fulham in August 2012, before leaving England for the French league in January 2014, when he joined Monaco. After being released by Monaco, he joined PAOK in September 2015.