---
{}
---

GK	Strategic	Shotstopper	Iceman	Juventus	ITA	A	0.0	Greatness	Zoff was a goalkeeper of outstanding ability, and he has a place in the history of the sport among the very best in this role, being named the 3rd greatest goalkeeper of the 20th century by the IFFHS behind Lev Yashin and Gordon Banks. He holds the record for the longest playing time without allowing goals in international tournaments (1142 minutes) set between 1972 and 1974. With 112 caps, he is the fifth most capped player for the Azzurri. In 2004 Pelé named him as one of the 125 greatest living footballers. In the same year, Zoff placed fifth in the UEFA Golden Jubilee Poll, and was elected as Italy's golden player of the past 50 years. He also placed second in the 1973 Ballon d'or, as he narrowly missed out on a treble with Juventus.  Dino Zoff is one of the best goalkeepers the world has ever seen. He has set lots of records in Italian and world football. He debuted his international game in the 1968 UEFA Euro at his 26 years old and is the oldest player to win the World Cup. In 1982 at the age of 40 he could collect the trophy as captain of Italy's team. And he is also the goalkeeper to have kept a clean sheet the longest time, from September 1972 to June 1974 (consecutive 1142 minutes or 12 Matches) was unbeaten and also own the Juventus record longest streak without conceding a goal in the intersected period with 903 minutes. According to being main pillar of Italy national team over decade, He became the most iconic player of his nation. Zoff was medium in stature but quick on his feet and excellent positioning and shot-stopping skills. He was a level-headed goalkeeper, capable of staying calm during the toughest and the most exhilarating moments. He always held back both out of modesty and respect for his opponents. Zoff made 360 clean sheets from 720 first-level club games or 50 %. He was voted in 11th, 6th and 8th Ballon'Dor in 1980, 1981 and 1982. Zoff was finished 5th in UEFA Jubilee Poll as the best European footballer in the last 50 years.	Zoff’s defining characteristic was his belief that he was only as good as his last performance and that he could always better himself.  This mentality served him well and kept him focused and sharp, never letting complacency set in. He was a perfectionist and openly admitted that he demanded the best of himself,  ‘I have never felt too confident and secure as a player, and now, when I look back at myself again I understand that I was right. I’m still not completely satisfied with what I have been able to do”. Every game was a new test for Zoff and his high standards pushed him to the top of his game, even in his latter years,  ‘I played until the age of 41 just because I believe that it’s always possible to make improvements”.