---
{}
---

	CF	Pacy	Creator	Vulture	Real Madrid	ESP	A	85.5		Trofeo Pichichi, Quinta del Buitre, Real Madrid	In 1981, skilled Butragueño joined hometown's Real Madrid's youth system, playing first for its reserve side before being given his senior debut by Alfredo Di Stéfano on 5 February 1984 against Cádiz CF: he made an instant impact, scoring twice and assisting for the third goal in a 3–2 away turnaround, after Real trailed by 0–2.[1] On 12 December that year he made his European competition debut, contributing with a hat-trick to a 6–1 home triumph against R.S.C. Anderlecht for the UEFA Cup third round (after a 0–3 loss in Brussels), as the Merengues went on to win the competition. At the time, Real Madrid's form was so patchy that first team's attendances were poorer than the reserve side ones.[4] Butragueño contributed to the side's transformation, and was a prominent member of the team during the 1980s, winning numerous honours: he received the European Bronze award for best footballer in two consecutive years, and won the Pichichi Trophy in 1991, while also being instrumental in the capital club's five La Liga trophies, two Copa del Rey and two consecutive UEFA Cups.  In June 1995, having lost his influence in the Real Madrid side (only eight games and one goal, as the club won another league), mainly due to the emergence of 17-year-old Raúl, Butragueño signed for Club Celaya in Mexico and, in his first year, the team reached the final of the national championship. After three seasons where he was known as the Gentleman of the Pitch – never received a single red card during his entire career – he finally decided to retire from the game in April 1998. Butragueño played 69 international matches for Spain, and scored 26 goals. His debut came on 17 October 1984 against Wales in a 1986 FIFA World Cup qualifier, although he had already been picked as an uncapped player for the UEFA Euro 1984 team as the nation finished runners-up. Butragueño was also selected for the 1986 World Cup, where he played a major part, scoring four goals as Spain beat Denmark 5–1 in the round-of-16 match. He also played in the 1990 edition in Italy (four games, no goals).
