---
{}
---

CF		Striker	Poacher	AC Milan	ITA	B	0.0	Inzaghi was an intelligent, extremely fast, and opportunistic player, with excellent reactions;[48][5][49][50][51] although not very technically gifted, [52] he was known for great skill in taking advantage of the carelessness of the opponents, his great positional sense, and eye for goal.[52] These qualities, along with his finishing ability with both his head and feet, made him one of the most prolific strikers of the past decades.[51] Inzaghi was described as a player who lived on the offside line. When he was first called up to the national team, the other Italian players were surprised at his lack of technical accomplishment, "but came to accept him because he scored so frequently.[5] Johan Cruijff grudgingly described this contrast—""Look", "actually he can't play football at all. He's just always in the right position.""[5] Fans nicknamed him ""Super Pippo", due to his lack of technical skill, "he was initially criticised by some for being a ""lucky"" player", [48] and for going to ground too easily, [5] he has been praised by several of his former managers and team-mates for his prolific goalscoring;[48][5] Inzaghi and others attribute his success, aside from technical prowess, to personal drive, intelligence, and determination		He played as a striker, and spent the most notable spells of his club career with Juventus and Milan, winning two UEFA Champions League titles (2003, 2007), and three Serie A titles (1998, 2004, 2011). He is one of the most prolific goalscorers of all time, and the fifth in Italy, with 313 goals scored in official matches. He is currently the fourth-highest goal scorer in European club competitions with 70 goals, behind only Raúl, Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. He is also Milan's top international goal scorer in the club's history with 43 goals. He also holds the record for most hat-tricks in Serie A with 10. At international level, Inzaghi earned 57 caps for the Italian national team. He represented his country at three FIFA World Cups, winning the 2006 edition, and he also took part at UEFA Euro 2000, where he won a runners-up medal.