---
{}
---

CF					ITA	C	0.0			Graziani was born in Subiaco, in the province of Rome. A prolific and physical striker, he started his footballing career in Bettini Quadraro before moving to Arezzo and then to Torino in 1973.[2] Graziani played eight seasons for Torino, making his debut in Serie A on 18 November 1973 against Sampdoria and scoring his first goal in the top flight on 16 December of that same year against Bologna. In total, Graziani scored 122 goals in 289 games for Torino, divided as follows: 221 appearances (97 goals) in the league, 45 appearances (17 goals) in the Coppa Italia and 23 appearances (8 goals) in European competition. He won the Scudetto in 1975–76. During the next season, Graziani emerged as the top-scorer in Serie A with a tally of 21 goals. He formed, in those years, the famous "Gemelli del gol" with strike partner Paolo Pulici (nicknamed Puliciclone). Graziani left Torino when, with his teammate Pecci, he transferred to Fiorentina for two seasons in 1981, missing the title by a single point in the 1981–82 season. In 1983 he was signed by AS Roma, with whom he won the Coppa Italia twice, in 1984 and 1986, also the 1984 European Cup final, losing in a penalty defeat to Liverpool (Graziani himself missed a penalty in the shoot-out during the match). After two seasons with Udinese and a brief appearance in the Australian National Soccer League, Graziani abandoned his playing career. He totalled 353 appearances, with 130 goals, in the Italian Serie A. Graziani playing for Roma in 1984, with the Neapolitan Bertoni. Graziani was also an important international player for Italy, representing the Azzurri at the 1978 FIFA World Cup (where they finished in fourth place after reaching the semi-final), their victorious 1982 FIFA World Cup campaign, and the 1980 European Championship (where they finished in fourth place after reaching the semi-final, once again). He debuted 19 April 1975 against Poland and scored his first goal on 7 April 1976 against Portugal. He scored one goal in the 1982 FIFA World Cup against Cameroon which proved to be decisive for the Azzurri's qualification to the knockout phase, who advanced on number of goals scored, at the expense of the African team. He returned to the national team for the 25th anniversary of the 1982 FIFA World Cup Final on 27 July 2007 in Stuttgart, scoring twice, with the final score of 4–4. With 23 goals in 64 caps between 1975 and 1983,[3] he is ranked as the ninth highest all-time scorer for his national team.