---
{}
---

GK						B	0.0	Buyo was born in Betanzos, A Coruña. At the age of fourteen he began playing football for local Ural CF, for which he appeared as both a goalkeeper and right winger during his one-year spell, achieving the feat of being both unbeaten between the goalposts and also the team's top goalscorer. Buyo's first professional club was RCD Mallorca, in the second division. After one season he joined Deportivo de La Coruña, where he would stay until 1980, with a loan to SD Huesca – while he performed military service in Jaca – in between.[1] He made his debuts in La Liga in the 1980–81 season with Sevilla FC, being the starting goalkeeper from the beginning; he played there six years, appearing in 242 official matches and also winning his first Spanish national team callup. Buyo's performance at Sevilla made Real Madrid require his services, signing him in 1986 as a replacement for an ageing Miguel Ángel. In his first season he appeared in all 44 league games (the campaign featured a second stage), the first being a 3–1 win over Real Murcia, being instrumental to the Merengues' national title; he would remain in the capital club until his retirement in 1997, teaming up with the likes of Emilio Butragueño, Manolo Sanchís, Chendo, Rafael Gordillo, Míchel, Hugo Sánchez, Rafael Martín Vázquez, Fernando Hierro, Fernando Redondo, Iván Zamorano and Raúl. The local success Buyo met with Madrid (six leagues and two Copa del Rey) could not be translated into international accolades, as the side kept being eliminated in European Cup competition. However, in his first season, he did have a memorable performance against Michel Platini's Juventus F.C. in the round-of-16 of the 1986–87 edition: after Madrid won 1–0 in the first leg and Juventus did the same in the second meeting, the winner was decided in a penalty shootout, won by Madrid after he saved three of the opposition's shots; he earned his first Ricardo Zamora Trophy during his second league campaign after conceding only 23 goals in 35 league contests, and his second came in 1991–92 during which he played as many matches, with 27 goals against. Madrid would win two more league titles with Buyo in goal, the first of which came in the 1994–95 season, during which he also had a streak of 709 minutes without conceding a goal in league play, between 3 December 1994 and 12 February 1995, the fifth-longest streak ever in the Spanish league. In his final year the club won another league, but he did not feature at all, as he was only third-choice behind Bodo Illgner and Santiago Cañizares; he retired with 542 first division games played, the third-most behind another goalkeeper, FC Barcelona's Andoni Zubizarreta, and Eusebio Sacristán.		