---
{}
---

WF					ESP	B	0.0	Stop-Start Dribbling, Extraordinary Top Speed, Excellent Acceleration, Profilic From The Wing		Playing on the left wing, Francisco Gento was an important member of the Real Madrid team that won the first five European Cups and remains the only man to have won that competition on six occasions. Spending a remarkable 18 years at the club, he played in more than 500 senior matches for Real and won more the 20 major trophies, making him one of the most decorated players in the history of football. Gento was born in Guarnizo in Cantabria on 21 October 1933, where he grew up with dreams of playing for local team Racing de Santander. At the age of 14 he was forced to leave school in order to help his father work on the family farm, but displayed considerable talent both for football and athletics. His first junior team was SD Nueva Montaña, from where he moved on to Astillero and came to the attention of many clubs across the region when he scored nine goals one game. Gento's greatest gift was undoubtedly his incredible speed. His personal best over 100 yards was not far outside the Spanish record and he was able to maintain much of that pace even when running down the wing with the ball at his feet. Having moved on to Rayo Cantabria, he got his chance to fulfil his childhood ambitions when he signed his first professional contract with Racing de Santander at the age of 18. Playing a handful of games for a mid-table Racing side in 1952-53, Gento caught the eye of Real Madrid who saw him as an exceptional talent. He signed for Real in the summer of 1953 but although the club won the league title in his first season, Gento did not get off to the best of starts. After a string of unimpressive performances there were suggestions that his incredible pace masked a lack of technical ability, but the arrival of team-mate Héctor Rial in 1954 proved a turning point. Gento followed Rial's advice and relied less on pure speed, learning to time his runs better and concentrate on providing accurate crosses into the centre, as well as using his powerful left foot to contribute several goals a season. In 1954-55 Gento was transformed, playing a crucial role in Real's successful title defence and making his debut for Spain in a friendly against England in May 1955. A crucial part of one of the finest forward lines ever assembled, he was ever-present in Real's success in the first ever European Cup in 1956. As he moved into his 30s, Gento began to lose some of his legendary pace but as the senior player in the Real squad, was still an extremely strong influence on the team. “The Storm of Cantabria” Francisco Gento is the most successful footballer in club level hold the all-time record the most champions of Spanish La Liga with 12 and the most European Cup Winners with 6, additionally holds with Paulo Maldini the record most appearances in European Cup final with 8. In 1963, He was selected as a start FIFA World XI against England. Gento totally played for Real Madrid 605 games and scored 183 goals. All in all, He is considered as one of the greatest Spanish footballers of all-time as well as the best left-winger in the world between the late 1950s to early 1960s. Incredibly, He never voted in top five Ballon d’Or in any year. Gento was noted not only for having great speed (he used to be an athlete in his youth and could run 100 metres in 11 seconds flat and was almost as quick with a ball at his feet), but also for his skills with the ball and his relatively high scoring capabilities given his position.