---
{}
---

CF	Prolific	Striker	Rifle	Fiorentina, AS Roma	ARG	B	82.7	Unstoppable Shots, Excellent Shot Power, Shoots With Both Feet, Powerful Runner With Ball, Shoots On Sight, Excellent Attacking Headers, Powerful Leap, Quick, Good Agility, powerful player with an all-round game, good technique, clinical finishing, as well as accurate heading and free-kick taking abilities, he is known as one of the most complete and prolific strikers of his generation.  Clean Striking Technique. Constant Threat, Telepathic Understanding (Diego Latorre, Francesco Totti), Easily Loses Marker	Serie A, Fiorentina, Argentina, Argentina, All-Time Leading Scorer, Fiorentina All-Time Leading Scorer, Played For RIval of Supported Team (River Plate, Boca Juniors), Only Player To Score Hat-Trick In Two World Cups, Arabian Swansong	Early in his career he was big for his age and always had tremendous power, but little accuracy.  The prolific striker played most of his club football at Fiorentina in Italy, and is the eleventh top scorer of all-time in the Italian Serie A league, with 184 goals in 318 matches. At international level, he is Argentina's all-time leading goalscorer, with 56 goals in 78 matches, and he played at three World Cups. In 1999, Batistuta was third in the FIFA World Player of the Year awards. In 2004 he was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players. When his club Fiorentina was relegated to Serie B in 1993, Batistuta stayed with the club and helped it return to the top-flight league a year later. A popular sporting figure in Florence, the Fiorentina fans erected a life-size bronze statue of him in 1996, in recognition of his performances for Fiorentina. He never won the Italian league with Fiorentina, but when he moved to Roma in 2000, he finally won the Serie A title to crown his career in Italy. He played his last season in Qatar with Al-Arabi before he retired in 2005. Found by Jorge Grifa, who found Tevez and Gago as well. Diego Maradona stated that Batistuta is the best striker he has ever seen play the game.