---
{}
---

CD	Influential	Guardian	Libero	Inter Milan	ITA	A	86.4	Scirea was a defender of technical skill and tactical ability, gifted with pace, and an innate capacity to read the game. In contrast to the ruthless tactics often employed by other defenders, including his paired partner, Claudio Gentile, Scirea was renowned for his class, fair play and sportsmanship. Scirea never earned a red card in his career. He played the sweeper, or libero, role for most of his career, and contributed to the development of the position, due to his vision and passing ability. Thus, in addition to aiding his team defensively, Scirea would detach himself from the defensive line and contribute to the attacking potential of his team, frequently being involved in the build-up of goals, and sometimes even scoring himself. In the latter part of his career, as he lost his pace, Scirea played a more defensive central-defender role. Gaetano Scirea has never been as well-known from fans around the world as his great ability. Consequently, Scirea was a graceful defender of great skills and tactical ability, played the sweeper, and contributed to the development of this position initiated by Franz Beckenbauer in the 1970s. In the latter part of his career, Scirea played a more defensive central-defender role, which he excelled at just the same. He was a gentleman never got sent-off or suspended in his career. Scirea is also one of only nine players in the history of the European football that won all three major UEFA football competitions. All in all, He is one of the best defender the world has ever seen.		He is regarded as one of the most underrated footballers of all-time.