The 16-year-old winger impressed after initially arriving on trial from the Dublin-based St Kevin’s Boys Club towards the end of last season. The young Irishman, who has been capped at Under-17 level, spent 10 years with St Kevin’s, a club that nurtured Hull City’s Robbie Brady and Burnley’s Jeff Hendrick as well as, in years gone by, Robbie Keane. “He’s a fairly attack-minded winger, he’s bright, has got good feet, good technical ability and a good work-rate,” says Carl Fletcher, the Bournemouth youth team manager. “He’s progressing nicely from what we have seen so far.” The club’s Category Three academy status stipulates recruited players between under-nines and under-16s must be from within 90 minutes of Bournemouth. “We had to make a conscious effort to broaden our horizons in our recruitment, we wanted different players in different positions, and the ones you want are not always so close to Bournemouth,” says Fletcher. “We still look at those dropping out of Category One academies like Chelsea and Arsenal, as well as non-league. With the first team being in the Premier League, we’ve had to really step up the recruitment.” **[Ben Fisher](https://twitter.com/benfisherJ)**  
  
**October 2017 update** The 17-year-old Irish midfielder has featured for both the youth team and the under-23s. “He’s adding goals to his game,” said the under-18s manager Alan Connell. "Hopefully he can continue his progression."  
  
**October 2018 update** The 18-year-old winger signed a professional contract in the summer and regularly plays for the under-23s. Was recently named in the Republic of Ireland Under-19s squad.  
  
**October 2019 update** Impressed Eddie Howe in pre-season and made his first-team debut against Forest Green in August. Kilkenny, who trains with the first team, was recently called up to the Republic of Ireland Under-21 squad.  
  
**October 2020 update** Remains on the fringes of the first team after making Carabao Cup starts against Forest Green and Burton last season. Signed new long-term deal in December and remains part of the Republic of Ireland under-21s squad.  
  
**October 2021 update** Impressed on his first Championship start against West Brom in August and started the following three matches but game-time has been limited since. Could depart on loan in January.