---
{}
---

CF	Athletic	Speedster	Power Forward	AC Milan	LBR	A	85.5	During his prime in the 1990s, Weah was regarded as one of the best strikers in the world, and was lauded for his work-rate, as well as his physical and athletic attributes, which he combined with his finishing, technical ability, creativity and skill.[25] A fast, powerful, physically strong player, he successfully filled the void left in the Milan attack by club legend Marco van Basten. In addition to his pace, dribbling skills, and goalscoring ability, Weah was also a team-player who was capable of creating chances and assisting goals for team-mates.[27][28] Along with Ronaldo and Romário, Weah was seen as a modern, new breed of striker in the 1990s who would also operate outside the penalty area and run with the ball towards goal, during a time when most strikers primarily operated inside the penalty area where they would receive the ball from team mates. Named African Footballer of the Year three times and becoming the first African to be named FIFA World Player of the Year, "his prominence in the 1990s led him to be nicknamed ""King George"".[26] Weah received further recognition in 2004 when he was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players.[2] In 2013", Italy and AC Milan legend Franco Baresi named Weah in the greatest XI he has ever played with.[31] As well as being regarded as one of the greatest African footballers of all time, during his career Weah also stood out off the pitch for his initiatives to fight racism in football.		Regarded as one of the greatest African players of all time, and as one of the best forwards of his generation, in 1995 he was named FIFA World Player of the Year and won the Ballon d'Or, becoming the first African player to win these awards. In 1989, 1994 and 1995 he was named the African Footballer of the Year, and in 1996, he was named African Player of the Century. In 2004, he was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players. After starting his career in his home country Liberia, Weah spent fourteen years of his professional football career playing for clubs in France, Italy, and England. Arsène Wenger brought him to Europe when he signed for Monaco in 1988. Weah moved to Paris Saint Germain in 1992 where he won Ligue 1 in 1994 and became the top scorer of the UEFA Champions League 1994–95. He signed for A.C. Milan in 1995 where he spent four very successful seasons, scoring some spectacular goals (the most notable running the length of the field against Verona), and won the Italian Serie A twice.[3] He moved to the English Premier League towards the end of his career and had spells at Chelsea and Manchester City, before returning to France to play for Marseille in 2001, and subsequently ending his career with Al-Jazira in 2003. At international level, he represented Liberia at the African Cup of Nations on two occasions.An exceptional goalscorer, it is no exaggeration to describe him as the precursor of the multi-functional strikers of today. 