---
{}
---

CF	Efficient	Striker	Bomber	Bayern Munich	GER	B	84.5	In his book, Brilliant Orange: The Neurotic Genius of Dutch Football, "author David Winner writes: ""Müller was short", squat, awkward-looking and not notably fast; he never fitted the conventional idea of a great footballer, but he had lethal acceleration over short distances, a remarkable aerial game, and uncanny goalscoring instincts. His short legs gave him a strangely low center of gravity, twisting and then hooking the ball in. One thing I'm struck by is how much power he gets on his shots. Obviously, if your shot can be accurate AND powerful, it is even harder to save. Müller seems like he was able to get lots of power on his shots even when he was off balance, shooting with his weak foot, etc. Probably has to do with tremendous lower body strength (which is evident, given his giant legs). Whatever it is, though, but he manages to barely get to the ball before them. Etc. These sorts of goals look easy, but I do think they're the type of thing that most players would not have actually gotten because most players would not have had the acceleration and anticipation required for it.  Gerd Müller was arguably the greatest marksman of the modern, low-scoring era of world football. His record at international tournaments like the World Cup, the European Championship and the Champions Cup is especially staggering, scoring 64 goals in just 60 games at the highest level. During his career, he scored 21 hattricks, four quadrotricks and two quintotricks (only counting competitive games). Seven times he scored five goals in one match, 15 times four goals and 35 times three goals in a single match (only counting competitive games here). In the light of these figures, it did not come as a surprise when Franz Beckenbauer once expressed his gratitude towards his long-time teammate by stating that “everything we became, all the trophies we won and triumphs we enjoyed, we owe only to Gerd Müller”. Müller’s great strength was his “sixth sense” at anticipating and realizing moments that could lead to goals, his very short reaction time in front of the goal. Mentally Müller was very balanced and arguably had the most refined poacher’s instinct of all goalgetters in world football. Müller rarely scored spectacular goals from outside of the penalty box, his area of expertise were ‘little’ goals (as Germany manager Helmut Schön put it), scored from all possible situations, laying on the ground, while sitting, while falling, standing, with his left and his right foot, with his knees, even with his bottom and with his belly, with his thighs, and of course with his head, for Müller - like Uwe Seeler - despite being quite small, however, was the famous “turn-and-shoot-in-one move”, which he perfected and in which he scored probably the majority of his goals throughout his career, as well as his most famous goal, the 1974 World Cup final winning goal against Holland. In the last few years of his Bundesliga career it wasn’t a rarity for Müller to be playing in midfield. Gerd Müller loved it when he was very tightly marked by the stopper, because when he was on the ball, he would shield it very well by seeking very close contact to his marker, protruding his bottom towards his opponent and then quickly turning around by using his marker as a tool to accelerate his movement. All this was done in a matter of seconds.	Acceleration, heading, instincts, turning, agility, jumping, reactions, two-footed, shooting, shot power, strength	I also think that Muller is one of those players that the more you watch of the more you appreciate. I initially thought he was just a Gary Lineker style finisher but actually his game was a lot more nuanced than that and he also had a knack of scoring in almost every big game (as well as every small one). He scored two in the 1974 European Cup final (replay), the 1975 European Cup final, the 1970 WC QF (winning goal), two in the 1970 WC SF, the 1974 WC final, two in the 1972 European Championship final, one in the 1972 European Championship final. 