---
{}
---

WD	Influential	Guardian	Wing Back	Inter Milan	ITA	A	90.0		9	10	9	8	8	10	8	8	10	9	10			Giacinto Facchetti's use of the left-back role is directly responsible for the roaming full-backs and wing-backs we have today. He was a one-club man, making more than 450 appearances for his beloved Internazionale, and scored an astonishing 75 goals from his defensive position. We laud the likes of Roberto Carlos and Jordi Alba now, but Facchetti was the man who built the first few blocks. Facchetti also inspired Franz Beckenbauer to roam further forward from his defensive position. It was during this period of the late Sixties that Beckenbauer began to experiment with the tactic of mounting attacking raids from the centre of defence. He had watched and admired the runs down the flank of the tall Internazionale and Italy left-back Giancinto Facchetti - an early version of today's wing-back - and wanted to adapt the methods to a similar role played from centre-back. The beauty of the ploy was, as explained in Soccer: The World Game: "The role of sweeper appeared a perfect launching pad, since the sweeper himself was never marked, lurked deep at the back, and could pick his moment to surge upfield." Bayern were quickly convinced of its value, but the West German manager Helmut Schoen was more cautious. Despite Beckenbauer's requests he was not allowed to play the way he wanted to for his country until the European Championship Finals of 1972, by which time he had been an international for seven years.	
