---
{}
---

CF					ITA	B	0.0	A quick, mobile, and powerful footballer, Boniperti is regarded as one of the greatest Italian players of all time. He began his career as a striker, emerging to prominence as a prolific goalscorer for much of his career, supported by star team mates such as John and Karl Aage Hansen, and Karl Aage Præst. In the later part of his career, as he lost his pace, he moved into a deeper position, functioning as a creative second striker, winger, or even as a midfield playmaker. Due to his excellent ball control, technical ability, Vision, intelligence, and passing range, he excelled as an assist provider during the final few years for his career, creatively supporting his more offensive team mates John Charles and Omar Sívori. Giampiero Boniperti was the greatest Italian footballer during the 1950s. With 182 goals in all-competitions, he was the highest goalscorer in Juventus' history for more than 40 years, until his record was bested by Alessandro Del Piero on 10 January 2006. Notably, he is the tenth-highest goalscorer of all-time in Serie A. Boniperti signed for Juventus at age 16, he had already built himself a reputation prior to this at youth level, as he scored 11 goals in one match. At a try-out in which he scored seven goals, "journalist Carlin proclaimed; ""A boy wonder is born to Juve"". Although he began as a centre forward he was a flexible player", and could play also as an inside forward or on the right wing. However, in 1957 La Vecchia Signora signed two forwards; John Charles and Omar Sivori, "along with them Boniperti would be a part of what was referred to as ""the Magical Trio"". The three players excelled impeccably together."		Equally at home as a centre-forward, inside-right or on the right wing, Giampiero Boniperti was one of the greatest players in the history of Juventus. Although he had always been capable of operating in a wider position, Boniperti now regularly found himself playing out on the right wing and although he would never again be such a prolific goalscorer, he developed a superb understanding with his new team mates.  With his speed and flair on the ball he was able to outwit opposing defenders with ease, cutting in from the touchline and regularly creating goals for Charles and Sivori.