---
{}
---

CF		Striker		Chelsea	ITA	B	0.0	Regarded as one of the best Italian strikers of his generation, Vialli was a complete and versatile forward and a prolific goalscorer, who was capable of playing anywhere along the front line; throughout his career, he was played on the wing, or in a deeper, supporting role, although his preferred position was that of a striker, where he could best take advantage of his opportunism and his keen eye for goal. In addition to his power and accuracy when finishing with both feet inside and outside the area, or in the air, Vialli was also capable of creating goals for team mates, and was also endowed with good vision, technical ability and control. A tenacious, hardworking, and energetic player, Vialli was gifted with outstanding athleticism, agility, strength, pace, and stamina; he also excelled in the air, both acrobatically, and with his head, which led manager Marcello Lippi to praise him, and compare him to legendary Italian striker Luigi Riva. He was also remembered for his dedication, leadership, and his charismatic influence on the pitch.		"Vialli started his club career at Cremonese in 1980 in his native Italy where he made 105 league appearances scoring 23 goals. His performances impressed Sampdoria who signed him in 1984. During which time he scored 85 league goals, won 3 Italian cups, the Serie A and the European Cup Winners Cup. Vialli transferred to Juventus for a World record £12.5 million in 1992. During this time he won the Italian Cup, the Serie A, Italian Supercup, UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Cup. In 1996 Vialli joined Chelsea and became Chelsea player manager the following season. In England he won the FA Cup, League Cup, UEFA Cup Winners Cup and UEFA Super Cup. He is one of nine footballers to have won the three main European club competitions, and the only forward to have done so; he is also the only player in European footballing history to have both winner's and runner's up medals in all three main European club competitions.
 At international level, Vialli represented Italy at the 1986 FIFA World Cup, and at the 1990 FIFA World Cup, where Italy finished in third-place on home soil. He also took part at UEFA Euro 1988, helping his nation to a semi-final finish, and was elected to the team of the tournament. During his twenty years long career as a professional footballer he scored 259 goals at club level, 16 goals with the national team, and 11 goals with the Italy national under-21 football team, for a total of 286 goals in more than 500 appearances."