---
{}
---

CF		Striker		Lazio	ITA	B	0.0	He was a fast, left footed striker who was a prolific goalscorer, due to his powerful, accurate shot. During the early part of his career he was used as a left winger, where his technique, accurate crossing, Press Resistant, and pace were put to good use. He was also an accurate set piece and penalty-kick taker, and was notable due to his tendency to take set pieces and penalties without taking a run-up. Signori was sponsored by Diadora and used to squeeze his feet into boots that were too small for him, claiming that this improved his touch and accuracy on the ball. At international level, Signori represented Italy at the 1994 World Cup, where they reached the final.		As a youngster Signori played in the youth system of Internazionale, but was eventually released after being told by the club that he was too short to succeed as a professional.[3] He went on to make his pro debut for Leffe (1984–86), followed by Piacenza (1986–87 and 1988–89), Trento (1987–88), Foggia (1989–92), Lazio (1992–97), Sampdoria (January–June 1998) and Bologna (1998–2004). He then spent two short periods abroad: first in Greece in 2004 with Iraklis Thessaloniki; and then in October 2005 he signed a one-year contract with Hungarian team MFC Sopron to end his professional career. The pinnacle of Signori's career came at Lazio, where he was the top goalscorer in Serie A three times, in 1993, 1994, and 1996 (the last title shared with Igor Protti). In 1998 he was sold for an undisclosed figure to Sampdoria after being used more sparingly by the Lazio coach Sven-Göran Eriksson. At Bologna, he helped the club to qualify for the 1998–99 UEFA Cup by winning the 1998 UEFA Intertoto Cup that season. Bologna went on to reach the semi-final of the UEFA Cup that season. Overall, he scored 188 goals in Italy's top division, the eighth highest in the history of the league. Signori was not able fully to translate his success to the national level, partly due to differences between him and national coach Arrigo Sacchi, who preferred to play him in the midfield, as a left winger, only using him as a forward on occasion, both as a striker and as a supporting forward. He played for the national side 28 times between 1992 and 1995, scoring seven goals. The only major tournament Signori played in was the 1994 FIFA World Cup, where he appeared six times as Italy finished in second place, but he did not play in the final against Brazil, as Italy were defeated on penalties after a 0–0 draw following extra time. Despite going scoreless during the tournament, he assisted Dino Baggio's match-winning goal against Norway in Italy's second group match,[2] and Roberto Baggio's match-winning goal in the 87th minute of the quarter-final match against Spain
Marco Simone	CF		Striker	Finisher	AC Milan	ITA	B	0.0			He most prominently played for A.C. Milan, with whom he won four Italian Serie A championships and two UEFA Champions League titles, as well as French clubs Paris Saint-Germain and AS Monaco. Simone played four games for the Italian national team.