---
{}
---

CM		Creator			URU	B	0.0			Born in Montevideo, Uruguay, a goalscoring midfielder, he began his career with spells at Grenoble and River Plate. Poyet moved to Real Zaragoza in 1990; winning the Copa del Rey in 1994 and the Cup Winners' Cup a year later, beating Arsenal in the final.[2] He became Zaragoza's longest-serving foreign player, and scored 60 goals in 240 games for the club. Poyet joined Chelsea on a free transfer in June 1997. Not long into his first season at the London club, he suffered cruciate ligament damage, but recovered to play in the team's successful Cup Winners' Cup Final against VfB Stuttgart. The following year, he contributed 14 goals – making him the club's second highest scorer – to help Chelsea finish third in the Premiership, including a crucial headed goal in 1–0 win against Leeds United.[3] He also scored the winner for Chelsea in the 1998 UEFA Super Cup against Real Madrid.[4] In 1999–2000, he scored 18 goals (which again made him Chelsea's second highest scorer), with a scissors-kick volley against Sunderland,[5] a long range strike against Lazio,[6] and both of Chelsea's goals in the FA Cup semi-final against Newcastle United,[7] among the most memorable, as the team won the FA Cup and reached the UEFA Champions League quarter-finals. With the arrival of new manager Claudio Ranieri in September 2000, Chelsea was a team in transition. With Ranieri seeking to reduce the average age of the squad, Poyet became surplus to requirements and requested a transfer. In 145 appearances for Chelsea, Poyet scored 49 goals. Poyet joined Tottenham Hotspur in May 2001 for around £2.2 million. He scored 14 goals in his debut season for Spurs and helped his team reach the League Cup final, but they lost 2–1 to Blackburn Rovers.[8] His time at the club was blighted by injuries, and he again sustained cruciate ligament damage in August 2002,[9] but still managed to score 23 goals in 98 games. Poyet was a Uruguay international, making his international debut on 13 July 1993 in a friendly match against Peru (1–2). After 67 minutes, he was substituted by Carlos Aguilera. Poyet helped his country win the Copa América in 1995. In doing so, he was voted as the best player in his position at the tournament.