---
{}
---

GK		Presence	Heel		GER	B	0.0		Harald Anton Schumaccher is one of the greatest goalkeepers in the World during the mid-80s. Kicker magazine rate him in 4.5 world-class seasons plus 4.5 seasons of international-class. However, His violent behavior with Patick Battiston in World Cup 1982 took him not as popular as he should have been. He was the very influence player helping Germany reach two World Cup final matches. Schumaccher holds the record of the most appearances for FC Koln. According to German Footballer of the year voting, he was the best German goalkeeper of the year for seven times. Nicknamed “Toni” due to his middle name of Anton, Schumacher had a tremendously successful playing career, having won the European Championship with the German national team in 1980, as well as 3 DFB-Pokals (Cups) in 1977, 1978, and 1983. But his highlight, he says, came in 1978 when Cologne achieved “the double”, having won both the Bundesliga and the DFB-Pokal. Harald ‘Toni’ Schumacher was one of the all-time best German goalkeepers but also the most controversial one. Schumacher was the blueprint of a kind of goalkeeper that would dominate the German goals during the 1980s and 1990s, a physically powerful athlete (due to bodybuilding) with an aggressive mind-set who was set out to intimidate his opponents, much like Oliver Kahn roughly 15 years later. Driven by an eerie ambition, Schumacher managed to sustain a very high performance level for roughly ten years and literally never had a notable drop in form during these years. Infamous for his malicious deliberate collision with French full back Patrick Battiston in the 1982 World Cup semi final, Schumacher since then is labeled as one of the most disliked ‘bad guys’ in the annals of football and to this day this deed overshadows his great capability as one of the all-time greatest German goalkeepers who was exceptionally strong on the line but also very assured in controlling the box. A very outspoken and quite extrovert personality, Schumacher said after his retirement: “I often deliberaltey collided with a wall. Sometimes I broke down the wall, sometimes the wall broke me down.”	