---
{}
---

WF		Winger			GER	B	0.0	Together with Fritz Walter and Sepp Herberger, Helmut Rahn (known as ‘Der Boss’ in Germany) was the incarnation of the “Miracle of Bern”, but wayward and fickle the next moment. Not an easy character to work with	Long Shots	Winger Helmut Rahn was one of the heroes of the 'Miracle of Bern', West Germany's shock victory over Hungary in the 1954 World Cup final. Spending much of his club career with hometown side Rot-Weiss Essen, he was a charismatic figure who often found himself in conflict with the game's authorities and had to overcome significant off-field problems. He is nevertheless remembered as one of the most popular players in the history of German football. Rahn was born in Essen on 16 August 1929, into a mining family. At the age of just nine, he joined junior side SV Altenessen where he would remain for eight years, albeit broken by several years as an evacuee in Czechoslovakia during the Second World War. On his return to Essen, he worked in a variety of jobs including as a chauffeur and a mechanic before moving into senior football in 1946 with SC Oelde. Seen by some as a selfish player who also had a tendency not to take training seriously enough, Rahn was left out of the initial squad of 22 players for the World Cup and went on tour with Rot-Weiss to South America. Helmut Rahn is a famous German legend, was sparked by the heroic antics of the German team during the 50’s. Particularly, a right-winger, Rahn showed his great performance in World Cup 1954 final, Germany lagged behind 0-2 after only 8 minutes, but then pulled it back to 2-2 with Rahn assisting the first German goal and scoring the second. With not long to go, Rahn received the ball just outside the penalty box before going past a Hungarian player and managing to shoot at the lower left corner with his weaker left foot just before being tackled. The ball whistled into the back of the net and Germany went on to win the game 3-2 over the apparently unbeatable Hungarian team. This match is known in Germany as The Miracle of Bern because of its "David versus Goliath"-like setting, and it is generally seen as an instrumental part of the rebuilding of the German people's morale after the World War II. In 2004, 50 years after the Bern match, a life size statue of him was put up near Georg-Melches-Stadium in Essen, on the square named after him. 
Jürgen Kohler	CD	Determined	Defender	Stopper	Dortmund	GER	B	86.4			The embodiment of the classic 1990s man-marker, Jürgen Kohler was an adamant central defender with a solid technique. In one-on-one situations he was actually more compromising than other, less known man-markers of the same ilk like Roland Dickgiesser or Dieter Schlindwein. His tackling was hard but usually clean, precise and on the spot. A fast player with good defensive heading qualities who didn’t offer much when going forward (which he rarely did). His short passing game was above average and he was very good at anticipating the intentions of his opponents, his biggest asset however was - just like that of his idol Karlheinz Förster - the ability to fully concentrate on his job for the whole 90 minutes and hence being a very reliable defender. For the national team, Kohler was one of the most consistent and longest-serving man-markers of all time. 