---
{}
---

WF	Dominant	Striker	Hurricane	Zenit	BRA	B	0.0	

WF		Creator	Thunder		BRA	B	78.0	"""a direct powerhouse of a centre- or wide-forward who knows his way around the box"". Throughout his career", Hulk has been considered a winger. He loved to play on the right side, cutting inside to shoot with his powerful left foot, and was placed there during the treble-winning season at Villas-Boas' Porto in 2010-11. Hulk is quite effective on the left as well and was at times used as a centre-forward, but this season his role at Zenit is totally different. The manager gave him free reign to do whatever he feels like in every moment, and that is exactly what the Brazilian is doing. Hulk is everywhere on the pitch for Zenit this season. He is not a winger anymore, nor is he a striker. It would be more logical to call him a midfielder, but that doesn't adequately describe his libero mode either. Hulk helps out in defense, pops up left, right and center, plays little one-twos, constantly asks for the ball, starts attacks in the middle of the pitch and finishes them off with killer passes. He makes Zenit tick, and he is magically unselfish.		After starting out professionally with Vitória and playing three years in Japan, he went on to play several seasons in Portugal with Porto, winning ten major titles – including the 2010–11 UEFA Europa League and three national championships – and being crowned the league's top scorer once. Hulk made his international debut in 2009, and played for Brazil at the 2012 Summer Olympics as one of the three permitted overage players. He went on to represent the Brazilian senior team in their victory at the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup and fourth-place finish at the 2014 FIFA World Cup. He is strongly built for a footballer and acquired his nickname due to his likeness to the actor Lou Ferrigno who played the Incredible Hulk on The Incredible Hulk television show in the 1970s.