---
{}
---

CF		Striker	Dagger	Arsenal, Crystal Palace	ENG	C	77.0			Wright enjoyed success with London clubs Crystal Palace and Arsenal, spending six years with the former and seven years with the latter. With Arsenal he has lifted the Premier League title, both major domestic trophies, and the European Cup Winners Cup.[2] He played 581 league games, scoring 387 goals for seven clubs in Scotland and England, earning 33 caps for the English national team. He also played in the Premier League for West Ham United, the Scottish Premier League for Celtic and the Football League for Burnley and Nottingham Forest.
Matt Le Tissier	CF		Creator	Talisman	Southampton	ENG	C	0.0	Regarded as one of England's most talented players ever, Le Tissier was a creative and technically gifted attacking midfielder, with an eye for goal, known for his ball striking, and ability to get into good attacking positions, in addition to his vision, and ability to create chances for team-mates, which also enabled him to play as a supporting striker. Despite his poor work-rate, and lack of notable pace or stamina, he was known for his excellent control, technique, and dribbling skills, as well as his intelligence on the ball, and his use of tricks and feints, which allowed him to beat opponents.[4][13][27][28][29][30][31][32] He was also known for his extreme accuracy on penalties.		Le Tissier spent his entire professional club career with Southampton and won eight caps for the England national football team before turning to non-League football in 2002; his loyalty garnered special affection from Southampton's fans who nicknamed him "Le God". A creative forward with exceptional technical skills,[4] Le Tissier is the second-highest ever scorer for Southampton behind Mick Channon and was voted PFA Young Player of the Year in 1990. He was the first midfielder to score 100 goals in the Premier League. He is notable for his record at scoring penalty kicks – converting from the spot 47 times from 48 attempts – and is considered one of the greatest ever from the 12-yard spot.