---
{}
---

CF					HUN	B	0.0	István Nyers (Hungarian pronunciation: [ˈiʃtvaːn ˈɲerʃ]; 25 May 1924 – 9 March 2005), "also known as ""Stefano Nyers""", was a Hungarian football (soccer) player. Although he played in only two international matches for Hungary, he is considered one of the greatest football legends of his country, reaching the peak of his career in the 1940s and 1950s. Nyers was born in Freyming-Merlebach, Moselle, in 1953 and 1954, he became Italian champion with Inter. After winning the championship for the second time Nyers left Milan and changed via Servette FC of Geneva to AS Roma, where he remained for two years. A season with the Catalonian sides CF Barcelona, Terrassa FC and CD Sabadell followed before he played out the remainder of his career with minor league Italian clubs. Nyers retired from the professional game in 1961. During his retirement he lived for several years in Milan before settling in Subotica, Serbia until his death in 2005 at the age of 80.		Nyers was born in Freyming-Merlebach, Moselle, France into an immigrant Hungarian mining family; his younger brother was Ferenc Nyers. When he was 14 he moved with his family to Budapest where he started playing with III. Kerületi TUE. He will have his first official debut aged 17 and playing with Szabadkai VAC[1] which was a Yugoslav club from Subotica that played in the Hungarian league system after the Hungarian annexation of Bačka during World War II (1941–1944). His good exhibitions were noteced by major clubs, and in 1944 he joined Zuglói GANZ where he played along László Kubala. In 1945 he made a major move by joining Újpest FC and seeing them win the Hungarian League in 1945 and 1946. In 1946 he transferred briefly to the Czechoslovakian team FK Viktoria Žižkov and then to the French club Stade Français. After two years in Paris he was recruited by the Italian side Inter. Here he developed to one of the strongest forwards in the history of Serie A. With 26 goals in his first season he became the top scorer of the league. In 182 games for Inter he scored a total of 133 goals. Twice, in 1953 and 1954, he became Italian champion with Inter. After winning the championship for the second time Nyers left Milan and changed via Servette FC of Geneva to AS Roma, where he remained for two years. A season with the Catalonian sides CF Barcelona, Terrassa FC and CD Sabadell followed before he played out the remainder of his career with minor league Italian clubs. Nyers retired from the professional game in 1961. During his retirement he lived for several years in Milan before settling in Subotica, Serbia until his death in 2005 at the age of 80.