---
{}
---

CF		Striker	Velocista	Newcastle	ENG	C	0.0	A lightning-quick player who was effective in any of the five forward positions of the day but was most at home at centre forward, Jackie Milburn was the star of the Newcastle United team that won three FA Cups in five seasons during the 1950s.  Although often overlooked at international level, he became a real hero at Newcastle and set a club goalscoring record that would last almost 50 years after his retirement. Growing up as a Sunderland fan, Milburn was an outstanding sprinteras a schoolboy, winning several local titles.  At that time his footballing ambitions were to be a winger. Early in the 1947-48 season, his ability turn and create space in tight situations and then shoot powerfully with either foot making him ideally suited to the role.  He was also far more adept at tackling than most forwards, a skill which often took opposing defenders by surprise.		Known (particularly in North East England) as Wor Jackie[1] (a Geordie dialectal version of 'Our Jackie') and also as the First World Wor (in reference to his global fame),[2] was a football player principally associated with Newcastle United and England, though he also spent four seasons at Linfield F.C. Second cousin to Bobby Charlton and Jack Charlton, Milburn played two trial matches at St James' Park as a 19-year-old in 1943. In the second of these he scored six second half goals.[5] Milburn made his competitive debut in the FA Cup in the 1945/6 season and was initially deployed on the left wing as a supplier to Charlie Wayman. However, Wayman was dropped before a 4-0 defeat to eventual winners Charlton Athletic F.C. in a 1947 FA Cup semi-final and when he afterwards vowed not to play for United again, manager George Martin made the decision to switch Milburn to centre forward. In his next match, on 18 October 1947, Milburn wore the number nine shirt for the first time and scored a hat-trick. Milburn's subsequent achievements, particularly his two goals which won the 1951 FA Cup Final and his 45-second opener in the 1955 FA Cup Final which was the fastest ever Wembley FA Cup Final goal until it was beaten by Roberto Di Matteo in 1997,[7] brought him national recognition[8] and afforded him iconic status on Tyneside.[1][9][10][11] In total Milburn played in three FA Cup winning finals for United; 1951, 1952 and 1955. Despite his achievements, Milburn was reportedly an extremely shy and self-deprecating individual whose modesty further endeared him to Newcastle United supporters,[8][12][13] though according to Tom Finney this stemmed from an 'innate inferiority complex'.[14] By the time Milburn left Newcastle in 1957, he had become the highest goalscorer in Newcastle United's history.[15] He remained so until he was surpassed by Alan Shearer in February 2006.[16] Milburn remains Newcastle's second highest goalscorer having scored 200 competitive goals. Despite this, Milburn's transfer to Linfield F.C. in 1957 was almost jeopardised when the Newcastle board demanded a substantial signing fee and, much to the anger of fans, Milburn was not immediately granted a testimonial.[17] His signing for Linfield 'added thousands to the gate' and he scored 154 goals in four seasons in all competitions for the club.