---
{}
---

CM		Guardian	Destroyer	Barcelona, Liverpool	ARG	A	0.0	He is known for his excellent leadership skills and tough marking and tackling style.		"Argentine professional footballer who plays for Spanish club FC Barcelona and the Argentina national team, as a defensive midfielder or central defender. Mascherano began his career at River Plate. He earned his first senior honours in 2003–04, winning the Primera División Argentina. He moved to Brazilian side Corinthians in 2005, winning the Brazilian Série A in his first season. Mascherano moved to Europe, signing for Premier League side West Ham United. However, unusual contract terms with Global Soccer Agencies blighted his brief time at the club and at the beginning of 2007 he joined Liverpool on loan.
 He was runner up in the UEFA Champions League during his loan spell at Liverpool, and officially signed for Liverpool in February 2008 for £18.7 million, parting ways with Global Soccer Agencies. After three years playing for Liverpool, Mascherano joined FC Barcelona in 2010, changing his position of defensive midfielder to full central defender (after playing there a few times for previous clubs). With Barcelona he has won La Liga and the UEFA Champions League twice each and FIFA Club World Cup once, among other honours.
 Mascherano has made over 100 appearances for the Argentina national football team, making him the second-most capped player in the country's history, after Javier Zanetti. He has represented the nation at the Copa América in 2004, 2007, 2011 and 2015, the FIFA World Cup in 2006, 2010 and 2014, and the Olympic Games in 2004 and 2008, winning both Olympic tournaments, becoming the first male footballer to win two gold medals since 1968, and reaching the 2014 FIFA World Cup Final. Between 2008 and 2011, Mascherano served as the captain of Argentina.
 Mascherano's two most used nicknames (in Argentina) are Masche and El Jefecito (The little chief – from his comparison to River Plate's midfielder Leonardo Astrada nicknamed 'El Jefe'). Mascherano also holds an Italian passport, which makes him eligible as an EU player"