---
{}
---

CF		Striker	Rifle	Chelsea	NED	B	0.0	Hasselbaink was a quick sprinter and had a powerful shot, able to shoot with his left-foot despite being primarily right-footed.[85] Tom Sheen, sports reporter for The Independent and Chelsea supporter, "wrote that ""[Hasselbaink] possessed one of the best strikes ever seen at Stamford Bridge", was an expert free-kick taker, "great with both feet and decent in the air"""	Premier League Golden Boot x2, Shot Power	A striker, he began his career with Telstar and AZ, before leaving the Netherlands for Portuguese club Campomaiorense in August 1995. He joined Boavista the following year, and won the Taça de Portugal with the club in 1997. Later that year he was signed by English side Leeds United for a £2 million fee, and went on to win the Premier League Golden Boot award in 1998–99. He was sold on to Spanish club Atlético Madrid for £10 million in 1999, and reached the final of the Copa del Rey with Atlético despite the club also suffering relegation from La Liga. Hasselbaink returned to the Premier League with Chelsea for a club record £15 million fee in May 2000. He scored 23 league goals in his first season, which earned him a second Premier League Golden Boot. He also played in the 2002 FA Cup Final and made a career high second-place league finish in 2003–04. He moved to Middlesbrough on a free transfer in July 2004, and played in the final of the UEFA Cup in 2006. He signed with Charlton Athletic in July 2006, before joining Cardiff City in August 2007. He played on the losing side in the 2008 FA Cup Final before retiring. He also scored nine goals in 23 matches in a four-year international career for the Netherlands national team, and appeared at the 1998 FIFA World Cup.