---
{}
---

CF		Target	Gentle Giant	Real Madrid	WAL	A	86.4	Tall and strong but with unusual agility and skill for a man of his size, Charles initially played as a centre-half and became a first team regular for Leeds during the 1949-50 season. With the ability to time his jumps to perfection, with the switch proving an immediate success. His strength and aerial ability made him ideally suited to his new role and unlike many other powerful centre-forwards, he also possessed superb skill with the ball at his feet. Rated by many as the greatest all-round footballer ever to come from Britain, he was equally adept at centre-forward or centre-back. Due to his height, physique, and strength, he excelled in the air, although he was also a prolific goalscorer with his feet, due to his powerful and accurate shot. Despite his size, he was also a fast player, who was gifted with good technical ability and passing ability, which allowed him both to score and create goals. Due to his height, which allowed him both to score and create goals.[3] He has since been included in the Football League 100 Legends and was inducted into the Football Hall of Fame. He was never cautioned or sent off during his entire career, [4] due to his philosophy of never kicking or intentionally hurting opposing players. Standing at 6 feet 2 inches, he was nicknamed Il Gigante Buono – The Gentle Giant.		Incomparable. John wasn't only one of the greatest footballers who ever lived. He was one of the greatest men ever to play the game. — Sir Bobby Robson.