---
{}
---

CM					IRL	B	0.0	An incredibly skilful and intelligent player who rejected some of the more cynical elements of the game adopted by team-mates, he also bridged the gap between Uruguay's leading teams Nacional and Peñarol by representing both with great distinction during his club career.He was able to play in a variety of positions from full-back to winger, but it was as a half-back that he would spend much of his playing career.  Unlike many of his contemporaries he was not a physical player but rather preferred to outthink his opponents, regularly using body feints to evade tackles. Although not a goalscorer, he created many scoring chances for the forward line. A skilful and creative right winger, Giles found himself given a first team debut in September 1959 as Manchester United tried to rebuild their team following the Munich Air Crash just over 18 months previously, which had claimed the lives of several of their players. As he became a regular in the side he began to come in for tough treatment from opponents, forcing him to adopt a tougher style in order to survive in the game. Johnny Giles was surprised to win UEFA Jubilee Award instead of Liam Brady. He was moved to Manchester United after the Munich disaster to represent of Duncan Edwards, played alongside Boby Charlton in midfield. After wards, He was transferred to Leeds United, played in midfield alongside skipper Billy Bremner and went on to form a central midfield partnership which was one of the best in English club football. Giles was known as the creative force. Despite his craft, Giles was later pinned down as one of the tougher and dirtier players in what was an often uncompromising Leeds side. In altogether, Giles won more than 500 appearances and scored more than 100 goals for Leeds United. He was finished 5th Leeds United’s greatest player ever by The Times.		One of the Republic of Ireland's finest players, Johnny Giles began his career as a winger with Manchester United before being converted into a midfield player at Leeds United where he played a pivotal role in the club's greatest era. Becoming player-manager of the Irish national team while still a star player at Leeds, he later combined that job with managerial duties in both England and Ireland before developing a successful media career. 