	CF					BRA	C	0.0	He can also play as an attacking midfielder.		Jonas started his career at Guarani in 2005. He made his debut against Esporte Clube Santo André. While playing for Guarani, Jonas scored 12 goals in 25 matches. In 2006, Jonas transferred to Santos,[2] where he won the 2006 Campeonato Paulista scoring five goals in six matches. However, he had a serious knee injury that kept him out of action for six months. In 2007, he returned to the pitch and scored four goals in the Paulista, helping Santos won the tournament for the second time in a row.[4] After spending only one year at Santos, Jonas transferred to Grêmio in 2007. On 12 September 2007, Grêmio signed a four-year deal which transferred 50% of Jonas' rights.[5] He made his debut in the Gre–Nal derby, leaving injured early in the second half. After the arrival of more forwards in 2008, Jonas lost his place, sometimes even failing to make the reserves list. The most consistent criticism from the press was his lack of physical strength when playing up front against powerful defenders. By July, he decided to leave the club. Despite not being able to avoid relegation to Série B, Jonas was one of the best players in the team, scoring 18 goals during his stay, nine in the Campeonato Brasileiro, ahead of teammate Edno's eight. After the end of the loan, Jonas returned to Grêmio for the 2009 season. He played in the 2009 Copa Libertadores, and after playing his worst game in the tournament (incredibly missing three chances to score in the same attack) against Boyacá Chicó he was dubbed "the worst forward of the world" ("el peor delantero del mundo") by Spanish magazine Mundo Deportivo. Jonas, however, scored 14 goals in the 2009 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A and was amongst the top goal scorers. He enjoyed further success throughout the 2010 season: he was top-scorer for Grêmio in the 2010 Campeonato Gaúcho and finished the top goal scorer in the Série A with 23 goals. Due to a low release fee (€1.25 million), Jonas rescinded his contract with Grêmio,[13] where he was finally transferred to Spanish club Valencia on 24 January 2011.[14] His first goal for Los Che came on 27 February, scoring a late winner in a 2–1 away victory for Valencia against Athletic Bilbao.[15] He scored his second goal in an 24 April game against Real Madrid, which ended 3–6. On 1 November 2011, Jonas scored the second fastest goal in Champions League history by netting inside 10.5 seconds, to give Valencia a 1–0 lead over Bayer Leverkusen.[17] He fell just short of former Bayern Munich and Dutch national team striker Roy Makaay's record of 10.13 seconds that he set against Real Madrid in the 2006–07 edition of the tournament. Valencia won the match 3–1. Jonas scored both goals for Valencia in a 2–0 Champions League win against Lille on 2 October 2012.[19][20] In the 2012–13 La Liga, he scored a personal-season high of 13 goals for Valencia. On 1 December 2013, Jonas hit an eight-minute hat-trick as Valencia defeated ten-man Osasuna in a home league match. On 1 September, he rescinded his link with the club. On 12 September 2014, Jonas signed for Portuguese champions Benfica on a two-year deal.[24][25] On 5 October, he debuted for the club in a 4–0 win against Arouca, scoring his side's fourth goal.[26] On 18 October, he scored a hat-trick as Benfica defeated Covilhã 2–3 in the third round of Taça de Portugal.[27] On 22 November, he scored twice against Moreirense (4–1) in the Portuguese Cup.[28] On 30 December, he scored the only goal in a home win against Nacional in the third round of League Cup,[29] thus scoring in every competition. On 21 January 2015, Jonas scored at Moreirense in the league cup and became the Brazilian with the best average number of goals in Europe (0.81), surpassing Neymar (0.74) and Luiz Adriano (0.70), with 13 goals in 16 matches.[31] On 28 February, Jonas scored twice in the thrashing of Estoril (6–0) in the league.[32] On 14 March, Jonas scored his 20th goal for Benfica (in 25 matches) and set his season goal record in Europe, as the Eagles beat Braga (2–0) in the Primeira Liga.[33] On 4 April, he scored twice against Nacional in the league.[34] On 11 April, he scored twice against Académica de Coimbra (5–1) in the league.[35] On 18 April, he scored twice for a third consecutive league match, in a win at Belenenses (0–2), and became the second best top scorer in Primeira Liga with 16 goals in 22 matches. On 23 May 2015, after winning the league title, Jonas netted a brace in a home win against Marítimo (4–1) in his last league match of the season in which he could have become the league's top scorer with 21 goals, but one of his three goals was wrongly invalidated for offside.[37][38][39] On 29 May, he scored the first goal in a 2–1 win against Marítimo in the Taça da Liga final, being elected as man of the match.[40] In this season, he was the top scorer in the league cup with five goals,[41] and in the Portuguese Cup with six goals.[42] On 4 July, he won the league's Player of the Year award. In the 2015–16 season, Jonas scored a hat-trick in a 4–1 win at Nacional, increasing his tally to 18 goals in 17 league matches.[44] On 5 February 2016, he netted a brace in a league victory at Belenenses (0–5).[45][46] On 16 February, he scored a last-minute goal with a header in the 91st minute to give Benfica a home win against Zenit Saint Petersburg (1–0) in the first leg of UEFA Champions League's round of 16.[47] On 29 February, Jonas netted a brace against União da Madeira (2–0) in the Primeira Liga[48] and equalised Óscar Cardozo's scoring record at Benfica in the 2009–10 season.[49] On 14 March, Jonas scored twice against Tondela in a 4–1 home league win and became Benfica's top scorer in the 21st century, with 30 goals.[50] Six days later, he scored the winning goal at Boavista (0–1) in the 93rd minute,[51] equaling Gonzalo Higuaín with 29 goals in the race for the European Golden Shoe award. Jonas was called up for the Brazil national team for the first time and made his debut in a friendly against Scotland at the Emirates Stadium on 27 March 2011.[53] He came on as a substitute for Leandro Damião in the 78th minute, and Brazil went on to win the match 2–0. Jonas scored his first goals with the Seleção in a friendly against Egypt on 14 November 2011, netting a brace in a 2–0 victory. On 30 March 2016, Jonas earned his ninth cap for Brazil – the first since 11 September 2012. He replaced Ricardo Oliveira in the 80th minute of the match against Paraguay that ended with a 2–2 draw, in the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualification.