---
{}
---

WF		Winger			BRA	B	0.0	Tall, quick and incredibly skilful with the ball at his feet, he also possessed a fearsome shot with his right foot which made him more of a goal threat than many other wingers.		Although often overlooked at international level due to playing in the same position as the legendary Garrincha, winger Júlio Botelho, Julinho for short, is nevertheless remembered as one of the most gifted players his country has ever produced. His long career in domestic club football was divided by a very successful spell in Italy, where he became one of the first Brazilians to make a significant impact on European club football. The son of a grocer, Julinho was born in the Penha district of São Paulo on 29 July 1929 and with the exception of the few years he spent playing football abroad, would live his entire life in the area. It was no surprise when São Paulo's leading clubs began to take notice of him as a teenager but the first team to show an interest, Corinthians, wanted him to play on the left instead of the right - a position which did not suit his game at all. Julinho Botelho was an very impressive skillful right-winger during 1950s, His performance for Brazil national team was rather shot led him as one of the most underrated player in history of Brazil football. He played the first World Cup in 1954 and being a reserve player of Garrincha in 1958. In club level, Julinho was the only Brazil star during 1950s to play in Europe, was able to show his prime and finally was voted as the best player in the history of Fiorentina in 1996.