---
{}
---

WF					GER	B	0.0	After Gerd Müller and Klaus Fischer the third highest-scoring goalgetter in Bundesliga history, who played most of his career as a right-footed left winger. By no means a classic left winger, who was not very tall, could rise high in the air thanks to his extraordinary jumping power and scored many goals with headers, could shoot very well with both feet. In his last ever Bundesliga game he managed to score five goals. For Germany, Heynckes played a far more humble role. With Gerd Müller firmly occupying the center forward spot, Heynckes found it hard to replicate his goal scoring ratio in club football, as playing for Germany he in fact had to play like a classic winger that had to service the center forward. A role for which better suited players than Heynckes were available. After Müller’s retirement from the German national team in 1974, Heynckes got more playing time and became a regular starter for the national team but in his last three years as a professional he was constantly plagued by trouble with his knee which limited his playing time for club and country considerably.	Kicker Torjägerkanone x2	Jupp Heynckes is the most prolific winger in history of German football, played 385 matches in the German Bundesliga, scoring 220 goals. His tally is the third highest in this league, after Gerd Müller and Klaus Fischer. He started his playing career in 1964 with Borussia Mönchengladbach who were in the second division. In 1965 the club was promoted to the Bundesliga. Heynckes stayed on for two more years and then left for Hannover 96, where he spent three years. He returned to Mönchengladbach in 1970, and stayed there until the end of his career in 1978. He was also part of the squad that won the 1974 FIFA World Cup in Germany, but he played only for one half of a game during the tournament. Kicker ranked him 7 international-class seasons in Bundesliga. 