---
{}
---

CM					HUN	B	0.0	It was Bozsik's tactical brain that was the real heart of the team.  He was never the fastest of players, but playing from the deeper position of right-half he was able to utilise his other abilities expertly.  A strong tackler with an excellent positional sense and the ability to hit accurate passes over a range of distances, Bozsik was able both to break up opposition threats and to help his team to launch quick counter-attacks. In his prime, Bozsik was considered one of the best attacking half-backs in the world, possessing good technique, flair, tactical nous, passing accuracy and creativity, although he suffered from a lack of pace. He was often used as a deep lying playmaker where his tackling ability was also helpful. He is considered one of the greatest Hungarian footballers	"As an 11-year-old, he attracted the attention of Honvéd FC and the club signed him to the youth team. In 1943, he made his debut for the first team against Vasas SC. He made his debut for Hungary at the age of 22 against Bulgaria on 17 August 1947 and went on to win 101 caps and score 11 goals between then and his final cap on 18 April 1962 against Uruguay.[citation needed] Bozsik won the Olympic title with his country in 1952 in Helsinki and finished second with the Hungarian team in the 1954 FIFA World Cup. He also took part in Hungary's famous 6-3 win over England at Wembley and the team's 7-1 win over England in Budapest.
 In 1956-57, Bozsik returned from Honvéd's winter tour to play in the 1958 FIFA World Cup. A year later, he won the Mitropa Cup with Honvéd. In all, he played 447 top-level games for KAC (and its legal successor BHSE) and scored 33 goals."	28/11/1925