---
{}
---

CM	Determined	Creator	Artist	AC Milan	BRA	S	86.4	Regarded as one of the best players of his generation, Kaká has been described on the FIFA website as having the capacity to glide almost effortlessly past opponents, provide defence-splitting passes and score consistently from distance. Especially during his prime at Milan in the 2000s (and prior to the injuries he suffered at Real Madrid, which have affected him physically), he was a quick, strong, agile, highly skilful and creative team player with excellent balance, capable of dribbling past defenders in one on one situations as well as during counterattacks. Kaká is also renowned for his vision and passing ability, enabling him to create chances for teammates. Having performed predominantly as a playmaking attacking midfielder throughout his career, he is known for being capable of scoring goals as well as creating and assisting them. A versatile player, he has been deployed in other attacking positions, performing as a winger on either flank, as a supporting forward, and on occasion as a striker. In addition to these characteristics, Kaká also possesses a powerful and accurate shot from both inside and outside the penalty area, with both feet; he is also an accurate penalty taker.	Playmaking On The Counter	In 2003 he joined Milan for a fee of €8.5 million. While at Milan, Kaká won a Serie A title and the UEFA Champions League, and in 2007 he received the FIFA World Player of the Year and Ballon d'Or awards. After his success with Milan, Kaká joined Real Madrid for a transfer fee of €65 million.[8] At the time, this was the second highest transfer fee (in euros) ever, behind only the €75 million fee for Zinedine Zidane. After four seasons in Spain, he returned to Milan in 2013. He made his debut for the Brazil national team in 2002, and was selected for their victorious World Cup squad that year, as well as the 2006 and 2010 tournaments.