---
{}
---

CM					KOR	B	0.0	Blessed with technique and vision, "Koo ""has an uncanny ability to find the back of the net", "often displaying a knack to charge into the opposition penalty box unsighted."""		Koo started football at age ten when a nearby elementary school opened its football club. During his early youth career, he mostly played as a defender, often taking sweeper role. However, he wasn't particularly outstanding and the fact he suffered from anemia also hindered him from gaining attention. In 2006, as a member of Boin High School, Koo participated in the Baekrok High School Football Competition that is annually held in Jeju Island. Leading Boin High School to a runner-up place with an outstanding performance, he grabbed the attention of Jung Hae-seong, who was then the manager of Jeju United. In 2007, Koo was selected by Jeju United in the K-League draft. He failed to make an impression in his first two years at Jeju due to numerous injuries. However, he slowly broke into the first team, mostly playing as a defensive midfielder. In January 2010, he was reportedly invited by Blackburn Rovers for a trial, but the move didn't happen. He spent a great season in 2010 at Jeju instead, driving his club to an unprecedented runner-up position. His contribution also enabled him to gain personal honors, as he received the 'FAN'tastic Player award and the Top Assist award and was included in the Best XI. On 30 January 2011, Koo Ja-cheol successfully moved to VfL Wolfsburg during the winter transfer window, signing a three-and-a-half year contract for an undisclosed fee.[2] On 12 February 2011, Koo made his VfL Wolfsburg debut against Hamburger SV, coming on as a substitute in the 64th minute in the 0–1 home defeat. On 31 January 2012, he moved on loan to the league rivals FC Augsburg.[4][5] During the loan period, he scored five goals in 15 appearances, and played a significant part in helping Augsburg escape relegation in their maiden season in the Bundesliga.[6] In his second tenure at Augsburg, Koo was plagued by injuries but still helped the club survive relegation in the limited games he had played in. In December 2012 Koo was involved in an on the field altercation with Bayern Munich's midfielder Franck Ribéry in a 2–0 2012–13 DFB-Pokal loss. After a disputed free kick Koo confronted Ribéry and touched his face, in response Ribéry slapped Koo.[7] Referee Thorsten Kinhöfer gave Koo a yellow card and sent off Ribéry. Bayern Munich director Karl-Heinz Rummenigge demanded that the ejection be overturned, while Bayern's coach Jupp Heynckes blamed both Koo and Ribéry, stating that although Koo had provoked Ribéry the latte should learn to not react under pressure. On 18 January 2014, it was announced that Koo penned a four-and-a-half year deal with Mainz 05.[9] He scored his first goal for Mainz in a 2–0 victory over SC Freiburg. On 31 August 2015, he came back to Augsburg. He assisted 1 goal for Bayern Munich on september 12. The 2015-2016 season saw Koo scored his first hat-tricks. On 6 march 2016, he scored hat-tricks against Bayer 04 Leverkusen. Koo played a central role in helping South Korea finish third in the 2011 AFC Asian Cup, with five goals and three assists over the tournament, finishing as the tournament's top scorer. During the 2012 London Olympics, Koo played as a central midfielder in the Korean national team. He appeared in every game in the tournament, and scored the second goal during the second half of the bronze medal match against Japan, securing a 2–0 victory for Korea. The South Korean team won the bronze medal in football for the first time in its Olympics history and in doing so, became the second Asian team in the Olympics men's football to reach the semi-finals. He was named captain of the national team ahead of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, and scored in a 4–2 defeat to Algeria in the team's second group match.[13] He was selected for the 2015 Asian Cup and played a decisive role in South Korea's opening match, a 1–0 victory over Oman, and was named man of the match.[14] In the match against Australia, Ja-cheol suffered an injury and missed the remainder of the tournament.