WF		Winger			SWE	B	0.0	Although known for his excellent dribbling skills, he also had the ability to finish runs with opportunist strikes on goal, making him much more of a scoring threat than most wingers.  He was a right-winger who liked to induce the ball into the inside forward area and make scores on his own. He was best known for his dribbling and finishing.		One of the finest goalscoring wingers of his generation, Kurt Hamrin was a key member of the team which reached the final of the World Cup when Sweden hosted the tournament in 1958. He went on to spend 15 years of his playing career in Italy, most significantly with Fiorentina. Still among the highest scorers in the history of Serie A, he remains an extremely popular figure both in Italy and in his home country. Hamrin had finished the 1954-55 season as top scorer in the Allsvenskan, scoring 22 goals in as many games as AIK finished in third place. He soon began to attract the attention of professional clubs across Europe, providing a strong lure away from the then-amateur Swedish game. Kurt Hamrin is one of the great Swedish footballers of all-time but was overshadowed by the famous trio like Nordahl, Liedholm and Gren. Hamrin is currently the sixth highest goalscorer of all-time in Italy's Serie A., playing 289 Serie A games and scoring 150 goals. Also, Hamrin played for Padova, AC Milan and Napoli for a few seasons a club. Hamrin is considered as the best winger in history of Scandinavian football. In 1958, He was voted 4th European Footballer of The Year. In 1967, He was selected as a starter FIFA World XI against Champion of Europe “Spain”. 