---
{}
---

WF					ENG	C	0.0	One of the great entertainers in the history of English football, Len Shackleton's style of play and sense of humour endeared him to crowds all across the country despite the fact that he never won any major trophies.  His attitude did not however impress the ultra-conservative regime at the FA, who considered some of his 'tricks' to be unsportsmanlike, leading to only five international caps during his career. Playing top division football with Sunderland, Shackleton broke into the England team in September 1948, making his official debut in a goalless draw with Denmark in Copenhagen.  However, international opportunities were to prove rare as neither the national selectors of the time nor manager Walter Winterbottom approved of his style.  Tricks and jokes were a regular part of Shackleton's game, including regular one-twos with the corner flag to beat defenders, backheeling penalties and stopping and waiting on the goal line after beating an opposing keeper before eventually putting the ball in the net.  He was also known to go back and beat defenders two or three times, just for show. Although he was dubbed 'the clown prince of football', Shackleton was not all about tricks however, possessing fantastic ball control and an exceptional body swerve which enabled him to beat opponents with ease.  He also had the combination of positioning, passing ability and powerful shooting which was perfect for an inside forward.  As well as his footballing abilities, Shackleton was a gifted all-round sportsman who regularly played cricket, even appearing in the Minor Counties Championship for Northumberland in 1948. Apart from the adhesive ball control and breathtaking body swerve, Shack could hit a ball. His slender legs could crack the ball like a Bofors gun		A boyhood Bradford City fan, his career started at Arsenal where he was signed as an amateur and was employed as a member of the club's ground staff during the summer of 1938. He made one appearance for Arsenal's A team in the Southern League, scoring one goal. However, on the outbreak of World War II in September 1939 he was released by the club. Following a couple of trial games, he signed his first professional contract with Bradford Park Avenue in August 1940. He came to the attention of the talent scouts by scoring 171 goals[3] in six years of wartime football at Bradford PA. As part of Second Division Newcastle United's plan to spend their way to promotion at the start of the 1946–47 Season, they bought Shackleton for £13,000. He scored six goals on his debut in Newcastle's record 13 – 0 defeat of Newport County.[4] However, his individualistic approach came into conflict with the authorities at St. James' Park. Newcastle's captain Joe Harvey himself was quoted as saying "Newcastle would never win anything with him in the team". Journalist Malcolm Hartley, who wrote a history of the Bradford team, wrote of Shackleton: "Apart from the adhesive ball control and breathtaking body swerve, Shack could hit a ball. His slender legs could crack the ball like a Bofors gun." In February, 1948, after less than two years with Newcastle, he was signed to their local rivals Sunderland for a then-record fee of £20,500. Shackleton was adored by Sunderland fans and he was known to prefer Sunderland to his previous club, once remarking: "I'm not biased when it comes to Newcastle – I don't care who beats them!" During games he frequently exhibited behaviour which pleased many of his fans, though upset much of the football establishment, and some in the game thought his antics to be "unsportsman-like". On one occasion, 2–1 up against Arsenal with 5 minutes to go, he dribbled the ball into The Gunners' penalty area before putting his foot on it, pretending to comb his hair while looking at his watch. Other examples include mocking opposition full-backs by playing one-twos with the corner flag, literally sitting on the ball to torment defenders who couldn't dispossess him, and teasing a beaten goalkeeper by putting his foot on the ball on the goal line. One of his contemporaries remarked: "Once in possession, and few can match his dexterity at bringing the ball under control, the ball becomes his slave. All the skills of inside forward play – dribbling, feinting, correct positioning and accurate passing are his to command."[6] He was also adept at back heeling penalty kicks into the goal. While playing for Sunderland, Shackleton played cricket for Wearmouth Colliery and for Northumberland in the 1948 Minor Counties Championship. His genius and humour was also evident on the cricket field. At Wearmouth CCC he would entertain the crowd by pretending to miss slip catches, then looking behind him as if the ball had gone to the boundary, before producing the ball from his pocket. Shackleton scored 101 goals in 348 games with Sunderland, but despite their high spending and his own outstanding skills his team's fortunes were inconsistent and he never reached a cup final, though he did make two semi-finals during his spell, in 1955 and 1956. His highest league finishes with Sunderland were 3rd in 1950 and 4th in 1955, meaning that his playing career ended without a major trophy to his name.