---
{}
---

CF		Athlete	Suffuco		CRO	B	0.0	In addition to his goalscoring, pundits have noted Mandžukić for his physical strength, versatility, mobility and fitness, as well as his ability in the air.[4] He was even given the nickname Đilkoš (pronounced jill-kosh) by Miroslav Blažević, which means brash and unsophisticated, referring to the striker's physical strengths, powerful physique and seemingly endless stamina, rather than his technical ability.[56] Known for his high work-rate and defensive contribution, [3] Mandžukić's former manager at Wolfsburg, Felix Magath, noted his endurance, stating that the striker is 'so fit that I think he could play two back-to-back games without stopping even for a minute.' Following his move to Atlético Madrid, Sky Sports analyst Adam Bate wrote that he was the perfect fit for manager Diego Simeone's style as Mandžukić is 'often the instigator of the press with his energetic running, Mandzukic battles defences, seemingly doing the work of two players and thus allowing an extra man in midfield.		"He started his career in his hometown club Marsonia from where he moved to two Croatian capital city football clubs, first joining NK Zagreb and then signing with Dinamo Zagreb in 2007, where he was Prva HNL top goalscorer in the 2008–09 season. His prolific scoring earned him a transfer to VfL Wolfsburg in 2010. After some impressive performances at UEFA Euro 2012, where he was the joint top scorer with three goals, he was signed by Bayern Munich. In his first season with the club he won three trophies; the Bundesliga, DFB-Pokal, and the Champions League, while also becoming the first Croat to score in a Champions League final. He left Bayern for Atlético Madrid in 2014, and a season later was signed by Juventus for €19 million.
 At international level, Mandžukić was given his debut for Croatia in November 2007 under manager Slaven Bilić. He has since participated in two major tournaments, UEFA Euro 2012 and the 2014 FIFA World Cup, gaining over 60 international caps. He was named Croatian Footballer of the Year in 2012 and 2013."