---
{}
---

CF	Prolific	Target	Aerial Assassin	Bayern Munich	GER	A	86.4	A prolific goalscorer, Klose is a large and powerful striker, who is known in particular for his ability in the air, due to his strength, timing, elevation, and heading accuracy, as well as his finishing ability; in his prime, he was also a quick player, who was known for his turn of pace in the area. In addition to his physical attributes, he also possesses good technique, and is known for his dedication on the pitch.	Kicker Torjägerkanone, Preadatory Instincts	Klose is best known for his performances with the German national team. He was part of the 2014 FIFA World Cup winning German squad, having previously finished second (2002) and third (2006, 2010) in the competition and as runner-up in Euro 2008. He is the top goalscorer in the history of the FIFA World Cup, having scored five goals in his debut World Cup in 2002 and winning the Golden Boot at the 2006 World Cup in Germany by again scoring five times. He also scored four times in the 2010 World Cup and twice at the 2014 World Cup, which put him ahead of Ronaldo in the all-time list with 16 goals. Klose is also the top scorer of all time for Germany, who never lost a game in which Klose scored. He retired from Germany's national team on 11 August 2014. At club level, Klose has been a less prolific but usually reliable goalscorer. Starting his career at FC 08 Homburg, he played in the Bundesliga for Kaiserslautern, Werder Bremen and Bayern Munich, and in Serie A for Lazio. He won two league titles with Bayern, and cup competitions at Bayern, Werder Bremen and Lazio.