---
{}
---

CF						B	0.0	During his playing days he was a versatile midfielder known for his stamina and passing capability. Also noted for his technique, Mykhaylychenko usually played as central attacking midfielder.		Mikhailichenko began his football career in the youth system of Dynamo Kyiv, under the guidance of Anatoliy Byshovets. He made his debut in the Soviet Top League in 1981, and went on to have a great career with Dynamo, winning four championships and three runner-up medals. He also won the Soviet Cup three times. His biggest success with Dynamo came when they won the 1986 European Cup Winner's Cup. He was awarded the Soviet Footballer of the Year award in 1988, as well as two Ukrainian Footballer of the Year awards in 1987 and 1988. In 1990 he was signed by the Italian club Sampdoria, who won their first Serie A title that season. The following season he moved to play with the Scottish Premier Division team Rangers. With Rangers Mikhailichenko managed to win another five champion’s medals. All-in-all Mykhaylychenko won championship medals in 3 different leagues, and for 7 consecutive seasons – USSR in 1990, Italy in 1991 and Scotland from 1992 to 1996. He remained in Scotland until retiring from playing on May 31, 1996. His first season at Ibrox was undoubtedly his most successful, as they completed the double of the league title and Scottish Cup and Mikhailichenko was a regular in the side with 10 goals from 27 league games. He featured in 29 league games as Rangers won a domestic treble a year later, but managed just five goals. He was even more frequent a choice in the first team during 1993–94, playing 34 games but managed just five goals. But then came the arrival of Brian Laudrup, whose presence in the team restricted Mikhailichenko to a mere nine league appearances and two goals in 1994–95. He made 11 goalless league appearances in the 1995–96 (during which Wolverhampton Wanderers made an unsuccessful approach for him) before retiring from playing at the age of 33. At national level Mikhailichenko was capped 41 times, scoring nine goals for the USSR/CIS. He won the Gold Medal at the 1988 Summer Olympics, and was part of the silver-medal-winning Soviet squad at Euro 88. He also played in the Euro 92 championship but injury deprived him of a place in the Italia 90 squad and he was sorely missed as the Soviets crashed out in the first round. Mykhaylychenko also played twice for Ukraine  In 1983 Mikhailichenko took part in the Summer Spartakiad of the Peoples of the USSR in the team of Ukrainian SSR. His first game for the Soviet team Mykhailychenko played on April 29, 1987 home against GDR team. On October 28, 1992 Mykhailychenko at age 29 played for the Ukrainian team away against Belarus.