---
{}
---

GK	Influential	Shotstopper	Titan	Bayern Munich	GER	A	0.0		“King Kahn” or “The Titan” is his nickname due to his formidable presence and influence. He is the only goalkeeper in history of World Cup to win golden ball award. Kicker magazine ranked him in 4 world-class seasons and 11 seasons of international-class as the greatest goalkeeper in history of Bundesliga game. He is an all-time clean sheet leader in history of the Bundesliga with 204 from overall 557 matches or 37 percent, also holds the Bundesliga record most clean sheets in a single season with 19. However, He was the starter of Germany in only one world cup tournament in 2002 because there are many Germany’s great keeping candidates in his era. Kahn is also known for his aggressive style and his Leadership characteristic. He was the best goalkeeper of the world during lately 90’s to early 00’s. He totally played 781 career matches and also holds the record most Bundesliga champions with 8. According to German Footballer of the year voting, he tied with Sepp Maier to hold the record as the most German goalkeeper of the year with nine. In 1994, he was transferred to Bayern Munich for the fee of DM4.6 million, where he played until the end of his career in 2008. His commanding presence in goal[4] and aggressive style earned him nicknames such as Der Titan ([deɐ̯ ti.ˈtʰaːn], English: the Titan) from the press and Vol-kahn-o ("volcano") from fans. Kahn is one of the most successful German players in recent history, having won eight Bundesliga titles, six DFB-Pokals, the UEFA Cup in 1996, the UEFA Champions League and the Intercontinental Cup, both achieved in 2001. Regarded as one of the greatest goalkeepers of all time, his individual contributions have earned him a record four consecutive UEFA Best European Goalkeeper awards, as well as three IFFHS World's Best Goalkeeper awards, and two German Footballer of the Year trophies. At the 2002 FIFA World Cup, Kahn became the first and only goalkeeper in the tournament's history to win the Golden Ball. Kahn placed fifth in both the IFFHS Best Goalkeeper of the 21st Century and Best Goalkeeper of the Past 25 Years elections. 