---
{}
---

CM		Creator	Flea	Valencia	ARG	A	0.0	Pablo Aimar is a very talented player, very skilled, and, also, very young, so he'll be even better in the future. His main strength is the dribbling (he has the ability to pass 3 or 4  players, like Ortega usually does), but, unlike Ortega, he is a better  passer (and he passes the ball more often than Ortega, who like to keep it all the time). In River Plate, he played as an Offensive Midfielder, a Gallardo type of player). That's when Aimar's performances are great. In River (a team fulled of great offensive players) he could do that. When he is the only responsible to feed the Forwards or to create plays, he might choke. Ocassionally, he can score goals, even though he's not a striker. Good free kick shooter. His main weakness is defence. Even though he's better than Riquelme (who can't defend anybody), and you may see Aimar once in a while pressing and stealing balls, that's the exception, not the rule. But usually this kind of players are not very good at defence, and they also don't care. Besides, he isn't a player with a big body, so he may be pushed around quite often, specially against quick, big defenders.	Gliding Past Players In Central Areas	A technically gifted and creative attacking midfielder with a vast array of skills,[1] Aimar excelled as an advanced playmaker, where he was best able to utilise his dribbling, vision, and passing ability to create chances for team-mates. Due to his talent and flamboyance, he was given the nicknames El Payaso (the clown) and "El Mago" (the wizard) throughout his career.[2] Aimar also holds a Spanish passport.[3] As a youth, compatriot Lionel Messi stated in 2002 that Aimar was one of his biggest influences as a player. After starting his senior career at River Plate in 1996, he amassed La Liga totals of 215 games and 32 goals over eight seasons with Valencia and Real Zaragoza between 2001 and 2008, before spending five years in Portugal with Benfica, winning nine major titles between the three teams. Aimar earned 52 caps for Argentina over ten years, representing the nation in two World Cups and as many Copa América tournaments, as well as a Confederations Cup. He reached the final of the 2005 FIFA Confederations Cup and the 2007 Copa América with the Argentine national side.