---
{}
---

CM	Flamboyant	Creator	Wildcard		ENG	B	78.0	A creative, hard-working, and technically gifted attacking midfielder, Gascoigne was capable both of scoring and setting up goals, due to his passing accuracy and his powerful striking ability.[141][142][143] Gascoigne was gifted with pace, physical strength, balance, and excellent dribbling skills, which allowed him to protect the ball, beat opponents, and withstand physical challenges.[141][144][145] Despite his talent, he was also criticised for his erratic behaviour and aggression on the pitch. His turbulent and often unhealthy lifestyle off the pitch, as well as his tendency to pick up injuries, is thought to have affected his career.	Unpredictability	He earned 57 caps during his England career and has been described by the National Football Museum as "the most naturally gifted English midfielder of his generation". Born and raised in Gateshead, the midfielder signed schoolboy terms with Newcastle United, before turning professional at the club in 1985. Three years later he was sold on to Tottenham Hotspur for a £2.2 million fee. He won the FA Cup with Spurs in 1991, before he was sold to Italian club Lazio for £5.5 million the following year. In July 1995, he was transferred to Rangers for £4.3 million, and helped the club to two league titles and two trophies. He returned to England in a £3.4 million move to Middlesbrough in March 1998. He made his debut in the Premier League in the 1998–99 season, having already featured in the 1998 Football League Cup Final. He switched to Everton in July 2000, and later had spells with Burnley, Gansu Tianma (China), and Boston United. Though well known throughout Europe for his club career, his football career is particularly remembered for his England caps. He also won 12 caps for the England under-21s and four caps for the England B team. He was part of the England squad that reached fourth place in the 1990 FIFA World Cup, and was famously reduced to tears after receiving a yellow card in the semi-final with West Germany, which meant he would be suspended for the final itself had England won the game. He also helped the team to the semi-finals of UEFA Euro 1996, and again embedded himself in the national consciousness with a spectacular goal against Scotland that was coupled with a memorable goal celebration.