---
{}
---

GK	Dominant	Presence	Titan	Man Utd	DEN	A	0.0		“The Great Dens” is among the all-time greatest footballers in history of Scandinavian football. He is known for his trademark shouts at defense to command them. Schmeichel was first rate shot-stopper, Large but agile and quick on his line becoming one of the best reflex savers the world has ever produced. He was just a famous world-class goalkeeper in his 29 year olds of age from his performance in EURO 92, was one of the most influenced players for both Denmark and Manchester United and helping them to surprisingly win that top European trophies. In 2001, Reuter’s poll indicates that he was chosen as the best keeper ever of the world. He holds the record with other five players most EURO tournaments play with four. He was voted in top five FIFA World Player of the Year twice times, was voted 7th World’s best goalkeeper of the century by IFFHS’s poll.	
Iker Casillas	GK	Influential	Shotstopper	Saint	Real Madrid	ESP	A	0.0		The Saint" Iker Casillas is  is the most decorated goalkeeper of all-time, was the greatest goalkeeper in the World during the second half 2000s, his best year is 2008. He holds the record most winners in IFFHS World's Best Goalkeeper with five, was awarded in row between 2008 -2011 and holds the World record most international clean sheets and also European record of all-time most caps. Casillas is famous for his reliability to read the game. He debut for Spain national team at 19 years old and having become a regular starter since the 2002 FIFA World Cup. Casillas holds the record most Clean Sheets for Spain. Casillas holds the record the most caps for Spain national team. He was voted as fourth place in European footballer of the year in 2008 and regarded as Real Madrid’s greatest goalkeeper of all-time. However, his 32 years old saw a flaw in his career as being bench to Diego Lopez at Real Madrid in whole of 2013 - 2014 season. Casillas was named in UEFA Team of the year six times and FIFPro World XI five times. Casillas finished 5th, 9th, 7th and 6th Ballon'Dor in 2008, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively.	Concentration, consistency, leadership