---
{}
---

WF		Winger			NED	B	0.0	"Piet Keizer and Johan Cruijff were known as the ""royal pair""", "or ""the starter and the finisher"". Keizer had a gift for not being noticed", but then striking with uncanny precision.		"Keizer was a part of the Total Football Ajax Amsterdam team of the 1960s and 1970s, particularly notable during the managerial tenures of Rinus Michels and Stefan Kovacs (1965-1973). he is widely considered as one of the greatest players in the history of Netherlands. Dutch writer Nico Scheepmaker said Keizer was ""Cruyff is the best, but Keizer is the better one"". Keizer played 364 matches for Ajax, from 1961 to 1974. He played predominantly on the left-wing and with Ajax won 3 consecutive European Cups (1971, 1972, 1973), having lost the 1969 European Cup final to A.C. Milan. Also with Ajax, he won 6 Eredivisie titles, 4 KNVB Cups, 2 European Super Cups, 1 Intercontinental Cup and 1 Intertoto Cup.
 In August 1973, under new Ajax manager, George Knobel, the Ajax players voted for Keizer to be the team's captain in a secret ballot, ahead of Johan Cruyff. Cruyff joined Barcelona just weeks later.His hallmark moment came in the European Cup final in 1972, when Keizer crossed the ball with a deadly precision and Cruijff only had to tap it in. Keizer was, for much of his career, in the shadow of his famous team member Johan Cruijff, but still some experts say Keizer was a better player then Cruijff was. An argument brought to an end the combination of Keizer and Cruijff in 1974, and Cruijff left for Barcelona leaving Keizer with Ajax. It would turn out to be the final season for Piet Keizer. With the Dutch national team, He played for the Dutch team that finished as runner-ups in the 1974 FIFA World Cup, although he had a minor role. The one reason was due to his already 31 year old of age and his speed had gone down. Michels was coach, and after an ineffective game by Keizer against Sweden, he was dropped for the remainder of the tournament. With the Dutch national team, Keizer played 34 times, scoring 11 goals.[4] He made his international debut in a 8-0 friendly win against the Netherlands Antilles in 1962. Keizer was in the Dutch squad for the 1974 FIFA World Cup, but was only selected to play in the 0-0 draw against Sweden by Netherlands manager, Rinus Michels.[5] Keizer retired from football in October 1974, soon after a row over tactics with Ajax manager, Hans Kraay"