---
{}
---

CM	NED	C	0.0	He was known for his technique and passing ability.		Witschge was born in Amsterdam, Noord-Holland. A product of local AFC Ajax's prolific youth ranks, he first appeared in the Eredivisie on 26 October 1986, at only 17, and scored his first league goal fairly a year after. His older brother Rob was already playing there. After being established in the first team, Witschge joined Johan Cruyff's FC Barcelona, being fairly played[1] as the Catalans won back-to-back La Liga championships. He made his debut in the competition on 14 September 1991, playing the full 90 minutes in a 3–1 home win against Real Zaragoza. Subsequently Witschge represented FC Girondins de Bordeaux, Blackburn Rovers (on loan from March 1995, he played once against West Ham United, as his team won the Premier League), Ajax (in his second spell with his main club, he added more than 150 official appearances, helping the club to two leagues and back-to-back domestic cups; additionally, he was loaned to Spanish top flight club Deportivo Alavés in the 2001–02 season), amateurs AD0' 20 Heemskerk and Oita Trinita from Japan, retiring in June 2004 at nearly 35 years of age. Witschge earned 31 caps for the Netherlands national football team, in which he scored one goal. He made his debut on 21 February 1990 in a 0–0 friendly draw against Italy, and was picked for the 1990 FIFA World Cup under manager Leo Beenhakker. However, an injury playing for Barcelona ruled him out of UEFA Euro 1992 and he did not make another major tournament until Euro 1996, held in England. During this time, his place in the national team was taken by his older brother.