---
{}
---

CF	Inventive	Creator	Hurricane	Barcelona	BRA	B	80.9		Shot Power	
Sócrates	CM		Playmaker	Doctor		BRA	A	84.5	Sócrates was a technical playmaker, known for great through passes and his vision on the field, as well as his physical strength. He was also a two-footed player and a prolific goal scorer. His ability to read the game was highly valued, and his signature move was the blind heel pass.[12] He was a key member of the Brazilian national team of the early to mid-1980s, "Jonathan Wilson said that ""Socrates was the brain of Brazil. He might not quite have had the flair of Zico", "but he was the central intelligence"".[13] Former coach at Fiorentina", Giancarlo De Sisti, "said: ""Socrates was a very intelligent man", "he had great class."""		Brazilian footballer who played as an attacking midfielder. His doctorate in medicine and his political awareness earned him the nickname "Doctor Socrates". Easily recognizable for his beard and headband, Sócrates became the "symbol of cool for a whole generation of football supporters". He was considered to be one of the greatest midfielders ever to play the game. In 1983, he was named South American Footballer of the Year. In 2004 he was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players.Sócrates played for Brazil for seven years, scoring 22 goals and representing the nation in two World Cups. He captained the team in the 1982 FIFA World Cup; playing in midfield alongside Zico, Falcão and Éder, considered one of the greatest Brazilian national teams ever. He also appeared in the 1979 and 1983 Copa América. At club level, Sócrates played for Botafogo-SP before joining Corinthians in 1978. He moved to Italy to play for Fiorentina, returning to Brazil in 1985 to end his career.