---
{}
---

CF		Striker	Finisher		ENG	C	0.0	A prolific goal-scorer, Fowler was a quick and opportunistic striker, with good technical ability. Although naturally left-footed, he possessed an accurate, "powerful shot from both inside and outside the area with both feet; he was also effective in the air.[134][135] Despite his reputation as a ""goal-poacher""", he was also a creative player, capable of linking up well with other players, and laying off the ball to other strikers.[136][137] Despite his talent, he was also known to be injury-prone throughout his career.		Fowler was known for being a natural scorer with an instinctive goal-poaching ability. Fowler is best remembered for his time at Liverpool and is the sixth-highest goalscorer in the history of the Premier League. He scored 183 goals in total for Liverpool, 128 of which were scored in the Premier League (162 Premier League goals in total). He earned the nickname "God" from the Anfield crowd, becoming a club legend due to his ruthlessness in front of goal.[3] He subsequently played for Leeds United and Manchester City, before returning to Liverpool in January 2006. He moved clubs 18 months later to sign for Cardiff City. He refused a one-year "pay as you play" contract extension and signed with Blackburn Rovers on a three-month deal on the same terms instead. In December 2008, he departed Blackburn and forged a career in Australia with North Queensland Fury and Perth Glory. In 2011, he joined Thai side Muangthong United as a player, but later was appointed player-manager which he remained until his retirement in 2012. He was capped for England 26 times, scoring 7 goals. Fowler was included in England's squads for Euro 96, Euro 2000 and the 2002 FIFA World Cup.