---
{}
---

CF		Creator	Fantasista	Juventus	ITA	B	78.0	Baggio is considered one of the best players of his generation, and one of Italy's greatest players; he is regarded by many as the best Italian player of all time. Italian journalist Gianni Brera, who had observed both Giuseppe Meazza and Gianni Rivera, stated that Baggio was the best Italian player he had ever seen. A world class playmaker with an eye for goal, he was renowned for his vision, Creativity, and passing ability, but usually played as a second forward throughout his career, "as he was known for scoring goals as well as creating them. This led Michel Platini to describe him as a ""9 and a half""", as he was not a true number 9 striker, due to his creative ability, but he scored more than a number 10 playmaker. He also stated that Baggio's playing style coincided with the re-emergence of the attacking midfielder in Italy during the early 2000s. While at Juventus, Gianni Agnelli referred to Baggio as an artist, comparing his elegance to the painter Raffaello, whilst he described the emerging talent Alessandro Del Piero as his student Pinturicchio. Baggio was tactically versatile, and was comfortable attacking on both wings or through the centre; this allowed him to play anywhere along the front-line. His preferred position was in a free-role, as a creative, attacking midfield playmaker, although he was rarely deployed in this position throughout his career due to the prevalence of the 4-4-2 formation; it was only in later years that he was able to play in this role more frequently. A prolific goalscorer, Baggio was also a set piece specialist, renowned for his accurate bending shots and free kicks. His free kick technique influenced several other players, such as Andrea Pirlo. Despite his miss in the 1994 World Cup final shootout, Baggio was also a penalty kick specialist. Although naturally right footed, Baggio was comfortable using both feet, and often began dribbling with his left foot. Not particularly imposing physically, or in the air, he was known for his pace and acceleration over short distances, along with his agility, quick feet, and technical ability, allowed him to lose his markers. Regarded as one of the greatest dribblers ever, and as one of the most technically accomplished players of all time, Baggio possessed an excellent first touch, and was renowned for his skilful dribbling, ball control, and balance, as well as his ability to beat opponents with flair, body feints, or sudden changes of pace or direction, both in one on one situations, or during individual dribbling runs. As he disliked the defensive, physical, and tactical nature of Italian football in the 90s, Baggio drew criticism from managers for his limited defensive work-rate when possession was lost. Some argued that he lacked leadership on the pitch, and had a difficult character, due to his disagreements with several managers, "although he was also regarded as a ""correct"" player. Despite his talent and success", his career was affected by many severe injuries.	1 v1, Dribbling, Set Pieces, Ambidexterity (Dribbling, Shooting, Passing), Set Pieces	A technically gifted, creative playmaker and a set piece specialist renowned for his curling free kicks and goalscoring, Baggio is regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time. In 1999 he came fourth in the FIFA Player of the Century internet poll, and was chosen on the FIFA World Cup Dream Team in 2002. In 1993, he was named FIFA World Player of the Year and won the Ballon d'Or. In 2004, he was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players. Baggio played in 16 World Cup matches for Italy; Ireland is the only team against which he played more than once. He is the highest Italian goalscorer of all-time in the World Cup, with 9 goals, alongside Paolo Rossi and Christian Vieri.[252] Baggio is the only Italian to have scored in three World Cups (2 goals in 1990, 5 in 1994, and 2 in 1998). 3 of his World Cup goals were scored in the group-stage, and 6 were scored during knockout matches.[252] Baggio is the joint 4th highest scorer for Italy, with 27 goals in 56 appearances, with a 0.48 goal per match average.[253] With Baggio, Italy always left the World Cup at penalty shootouts: in 1990, in the semi-finals against Argentina; in 1994, in the final against Brazil; and in 1998, in the quarter-finals against France. In his 16 world cup matches, Italy lost only one, the opening game of USA 94. Despite his penalty miss in the 1994 World Cup Final, he is statistically one of the greatest penalty kick specialists in Italian football history. Baggio has scored 85 percent of his career penalties, with only 19 misses, scoring 108 out of 127 penalties in official matches, the most in Italian football history.[28] Baggio scored 10 with Vicenza, 25 with Fiorentina, 38 with Juventus, 5 with Milan, 11 with Bologna, 1 with Inter, 11 with Brescia, and 7 with the Italy (from 7 attempts). 68 of his penalties were scored in Serie A, from 83 attempts, with an 82% conversion rate, one of the best records in Serie A history.[254] In Serie A, Baggio scored 17 penalties for Fiorentina (from 19 attempts), 25 for Juventus (from 28 attempts), 3 for Milan (from 5 attempts), 11 for Bologna (from 11 attempts), 1 for Inter (from 2 attempts), and 11 for Brescia (from 18 attempts).[255] Baggio has scored penalties for 6 different Serie A clubs.[254] 4 of his 15 misses in Serie A were then scored on rebounds. Behind Totti, Baggio has scored the most penalties in Serie A history.[255][256] 8 of his penalties were scored in Serie C (from 8 attempts), 8 in European competitions (from 9 attempts), and 17 in the Coppa Italia (from 20 attempts). In shootouts, Baggio has made 3 out of 4 career penalties;[28] in World Cup shootouts, Baggio scored twice (1990 and 1998), with his only miss in 1994. Although he never won the Serie A top goalscorer title, Baggio is currently the 7th all-time highest scorer in Serie A, with 205 goals; of these goals, 96 were decisive (either equalisers or match winners).[26] Baggio has also scored the fourth highest number of free kicks in Serie A, with 21 goals; ahead of him are only Del Piero, Pirlo, and Siniša Mihajlović.[259] Of his open play goals in Serie A, 84 were with his right foot, 26 with his left, and 9 were headers;[256] he also assisted 118 goals in Serie A.[260] He is the 4th highest scoring Italian in all competitions, behind Del Piero, Meazza, and Piola, with 318 goals.[253] Alongside Totti and Alberto Gilardino, he has scored against the most different clubs in Serie A (38).