---
{}
---

CF		Creator			ITA	B	0.0	Mancini was a creative and technically gifted forward, who was frequently deployed as a supporting striker alongside a centre forward, or, on occasion, as an offensive playmaker in the attacking midfield position later on in his career. A classic number 10 with creativity and vision, as well as accurate passing and finishing ability, he was capable of assisting many goals as well as scoring them himself, due to his eye for the final pass; he was also known for his excellent technique in the air, which enabled him to execute spectacular volleys. An elegant and skilful player, Mancini was also renowned for his flair, ball control and dribbling ability, as well as his tactical intelligence. He frequently stood out because of this attribute, as well as due to his leadership. He was often a vocal presence on the football pitch, regularly organising and motivating his teammates, as well as discussing with opponents and arguing with referees. Mancini is regarded as one of the best Italian players of his generation, and as one of Italy's greatest ever number 10s.		As a player, Mancini played as a deep-lying forward, and was best known for his time at Sampdoria, where he played more than 550 matches, and helped them win the Serie A league title, four Coppa Italia and the European Cup Winners' Cup. He was capped 36 times for Italy, taking part at UEFA Euro 1988 and the 1990 FIFA World Cup. In 1997, after 15 years at Sampdoria, Mancini left the club to join Lazio, where he won a further Scudetto, Cup Winners' Cup, UEFA Super Cup and two more Coppa Italia.