---
{}
---

GK					URU	B	0.0		Roque Maspoli is known as the greatest Latin American goalkeeper between the late 40s and early 50s, is one of the most decorated goalkeepers in South American football history. Maspoli was essentially a shot stopper - brave, flexible and immensely agile, with superb anticipation. Like so many continental and south American keepers, he was less effective at dealing with high centers from the wings. Maspoli won first caps when he already was 26 years old and not even a first starter of Penarol in 1949 season until his candidate was injury. Nevertheless, Maspoli was an important part of Penarol which was unbeaten in twice domestic seasons in 1949 and 1954. He did his outstanding performance in World Cup 1950 which Uruguay won the champion. He participated in twice South American Championship and twice World Cup tournaments, kept 5 clean sheets in total 19 games. Roque Maspoli was voted 6th south America’s best goalkeeper of the century by IFFHS poll.Uruguayan goalkeeper Roque Máspoli was one of the heroes of his country's triumph in the 1950 World Cup in Brazil, making a number of vital saves in the final match against the host nation.  Winning numerous major honours as both a player and coach with Peñarol, he also had two separate spells as manager of the Uruguayan national team, the last of which saw him still in the job past his 80th birthday. Born in Montevideo on 12 October 1917, Máspoli started out playing as a full-back and as a boy supported Peñarol.  His football career however began within the other powerhouse of Uruguayan football, Nacional.  It was within their youth setup that he first became and goalkeeper, going on to become one of the finest to ever come from South America.  His agility and reflexes were remarkable for a man of his height and build.	