---
{}
---

CM	Aggressive	Presence	General	Man Utd	IRL	A	88.2	Roy Keane was an aggressively powerful midfielder and one of the most hard mans in British football history. He was full of winning-mind and proved himself as a true leader for his club and national team, was a key to create Man U’s glory year, routinely activate his team to get back as a winner even being led for scores. However, It often became his violent behavior, was suspended and sent-off several times during his career until holds the record for the most red cards in English football with 13. The most famous event was his hard tackling to Alf-Inge Haland due to his wanting to revenge. As a result, Haland was broken leg and retired from football shortly afterwards. Roy Keane could play as sweeper as well although it was rare to see him play as this position. All in all, Roy Keane is regarded as one of the best footballers Ireland has ever produced.	In his 18-year-long playing career, he played for Cobh Ramblers, Nottingham Forest, and Manchester United, before ending his career at Celtic. Keane was a dominating defensive midfielder, noted for his aggressive and highly competitive style of play, an attitude that helped him excel as captain of Manchester United from 1997 until his departure in 2005. Joining the club in 1993, Keane helped United achieve a sustained period of success during his twelve year tenure at the club. He then signed for Celtic but retired as a player less than a year later. Keane played at international level for much of his career, representing the Republic of Ireland over a period of 14 years, most of which he spent as captain. He played in every Republic of Ireland game at the 1994 FIFA World Cup, although he was sent home from the 2002 World Cup after an incident with national coach Mick McCarthy. Regarded as one of the best defensive midfielders of his generation, in 2004 Keane was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100 list of the world's greatest living players.[4] In 2007, The Times placed him at number 11 in their list of the 50 hardest footballers in history.	10/8/1971