---
{}
---

WF					ITA	C	0.0	Mazzola is widely regarded as one of the greatest Italian football players of all time and as one of the best players of his generation. A tactically versatile player, he was capable of playing in several advanced positions. Due to his work-rate, he was primarily utilised as an inside-right under Herrera, but he was also used as a forward, winger and as a supporting striker on occasion. In his later career, he was usually deployed as an offensive midfielder with creative instincts, which was aided by his passing range, Vision, technique, ball skills, and close control. He was also a prolific goalscorer as a forward, which enabled him to win the Serie A top scorer award in 1965. Mazzola was most highly regarded during his prime for his pace, stamina, balance, Acceleration, and agility, in particular when dribbling at speed, which along with his excellent ball control and technical ability, enabled him to beat defenders frequently in one-on-one situations.		"Sandro Mazzola played for the highly successful Internazionale team remembered by the name of ""La Grande Inter"", during the 60s, and he is widely regarded as one of the greatest Italian football players of all time, and as one of the best players of his generation,[1] placing 2nd in the 1971 Ballon d'Or.[2] With the entire career of seventeen seasons played only for Internazionale, he holds the honor of being a one-club man, winning four Serie A titles (1963, 1965, 1966 and 1971), two European Cups (1964 and 1965) and two Intercontinental Cups (1964 and 1965), also winning the Serie A top-scorer award during the 1964–65 season, and reaching the Coppa Italia final during the 1964–65 season, narrowly missing out on a treble with the club in 1965. With the Italian national side, Mazzola won the European Championship in 1968 and reached the final of the 1970 FIFA World Cup.
 He is the son of Italian footballer Valentino Mazzola, player of the Grande Torino who died in the Superga air disaster; his younger brother, Ferruccio Mazzola, was also a footballer, who died in 2013."