
Tactical Attributes: Marking (18), Positioning (17), Heading (17), Concentration (16), Anticipation (16)

Technical Efficiency: Goals (11), Assists (0), Shots on Target (18), Pass Completion (92%), Successful Dribbles (8)

Enneagram Type: The Leader

Never received a red card while playing for the Spain National Team (As of today, Ramos has received 29 red cards: 26 at Real Madrid, 2 while at PSG, & 1 while at Sevilla).

  

CD Determined Defender Caudillo Real Madrid ESP A 89.1 Ramos is a strong player who excels in the air, making him a goal threat on set-pieces, [50] and he is also a competent, aggressive tackler. He is gifted with pace, good technical ability, as well as good distribution and crossing ability. According to Spanish sports newspaper Marca, FIFA's official records confirmed that Ramos has been clocked at a sprinting speed of 30.6 kilometers per hour. He has been criticised, for his lack of discipline at times, and he holds the record for the most red cards obtained by a Real Madrid player. Due to his leadership, his athletic and technical prowess, his ability to excel both offensively and defensively, as well as his tactical versatility, he has also occasionally been deployed as a central or defensive midfielder, in particular under Ancelotti during the 2014–15 season. Born in Camas, Seville, Andalusia, Ramos began his career at local side Sevilla FC, emerging through the club's youth system alongside Jesús Navas and Antonio Puerta. He made his first-team – and La Liga – debut on 1 February 2004, coming on as a 64th-minute substitute for Francisco Gallardo in a 0–1 away loss against Deportivo de La Coruña. In the 2004–05 season, Ramos appeared in 41 games as Sevilla finished sixth and qualified to the UEFA Cup, scoring in home fixtures against Real Sociedad (2–1)[5] and Real Madrid (2–2).[6] In the season's edition of that European tournament, he scored his first continental goal, heading to conclude a 2–0 win over CD Nacional at the Estadio Ramon Sánchez Pizjuán in the first round (4–1 aggregate). In the summer of 2005, Ramos was purchased by Real Madrid for €27 million, a record for a Spanish teenager.[8] He was the only Spanish player brought in during Florentino Pérez's first stint as Real's president. At the club, Ramos was assigned the number 4 shirt, previously worn by Fernando Hierro. On 6 December 2005 he netted his first goal for the Merengues, in a 1–2 UEFA Champions League group stage loss at Olympiacos. During his first seasons, Ramos played as centre back, being also used as an emergency defensive midfielder on occasion. However, with the arrival of Christoph Metzelder and Pepe in the 2007–08 season, he was again relocated to right back. In his first four seasons at Real Madrid, Ramos displayed a goalscoring instinct unusual to many defenders, netting more than 20 goals overall. He also received the first nine of his 21 red cards for the club, including four in his debut season. His first red card came after two bookable offences in a 1–0 away loss to RCD Espanyol on 18 September 2005. During the 2006–07 season, Ramos scored five goals, including one in a 3–3 draw with FC Barcelona, as Real Madrid won a record 30th Spanish league championship. On 4 May 2008, he assisted Gonzalo Higuaín in the 89th minute against CA Osasuna in an eventual 2–1 away win, the match that sealed the club's 31st league championship. On the final day of the season, he scored twice in a 5–2 home win against already relegated Levante UD: one through a header, and another an individual effort; these goals taking his league tally for the 2007–08 season to five. On 24 August 2008, Ramos scored in the 2008 Supercopa de España second-leg against Valencia CF, making the score 2–1 in an eventual 4–2 and 6–5 aggregate win. The victory came despite Real Madrid playing with only nine men for a long period of time after Rafael van der Vaart and Ruud van Nistelrooy were sent off. Although Ramos experienced a slight dip in form during the early part of the 2008–09 season, he returned to his best and on 11 January 2009, scoring an acrobatic volley in a 3–0 triumph at RCD Mallorca.[13] He continued his scoring run the following week in a 3–1 home win against Osasuna. Ramos was named in both FIFA and UEFA's 2008 Team of the Year, adding the FIFPro Team of the Year 2007–08 accolade. He also finished 21st in the European Player of the Year nomination for 2008. At the start of the 2009–10 season, Ramos was appointed as one of Real Madrid's four captains. Because Pepe had suffered a serious knee injury during this campaign, Ramos was often deployed as central defender. Ramos scored four goals in 33 league matches; and, on 21 February 2010 he played his 200th official match for the capital team against Villarreal CF (150 in the first division). Despite these personal highlights for Sergio Ramos, this season was a disappointing one for his side, with Los Blancos finishing the campaign without picking up any silverware. In Real Madrid's 0–5 loss at FC Barcelona on 29 November 2010, Ramos was sent off after kicking Lionel Messi from behind, then pushing Carles Puyol in the ensuing melée.[16] After this ejection, he equalled Fernando Hierro's previous record of ten red cards at the club, despite having played in 264 fewer games. On 20 April 2011, Ramos started in the season's Copa del Rey final, a 1–0 win against Barcelona in Valencia. In the subsequent victory procession, while celebrating on the top of the club's bus, he accidentally lost hold of the cup, which fell under the wheels of the vehicle; the trophy was dented as a result. On 12 July 2011, Ramos extended his contract with Real Madrid until 2017.[19] Early into the season, he emerged from an injury to Ricardo Carvalho to adjust to his less natural position as stopper. On 25 April 2012, in the Champions League semi-finals' second leg against FC Bayern Munich, Ramos missed his penalty shootout attempt, shooting in the 44th row of the Santiago de Bernabeu earning a lot of jeer from his crowd and his ability to take penalty was questioned over and over again. Real Madrid went on to lose 1–3 and be eliminated;[20] as the league campaign ended in conquest after a four-year wait, he was the player with most balls recovered in his team, third overall. On 9 January 2013, Ramos was sent off for a second bookable offense midway through the second half of an eventual 4–0 home win over Celta de Vigo for the domestic cup. He subsequently received a four-match suspension, after it was revealed he also insulted referee Miguel Ángel Ayza Gámez. The following month, mere minutes after scoring the second goal at home against Rayo Vallecano and less than 20 minutes into the first half, he received two yellow cards within one minute in the eventual 2–0 home success, taking his red card tally with Real Madrid alone to 16; and 12 in the league. In late February/early March 2013, due to the absence of Iker Casillas due to injury, Ramos captained Real to back-to-back wins over Barcelona in just four days: he netted the 2–1 home winner in the second game, heading home after a corner kick. On 14 December 2013, Ramos received a club record 18th red card for Real Madrid in a 2–2 draw at Osasuna, but the suspension was later lifted.[27] His 19th came in a 3–4 home defeat to Barcelona, on 23 March 2014. On 29 April 2014, Ramos scored twice from headers in a 4–0 away win against Bayern Munich for the semi-finals of the Champions League,[28] with the tie ending with a 5–0 aggregate score and Madrid's qualification to the decisive match for the first time in twelve years.[29] On 24 May, in the final against Atlético Madrid, he headed home in stoppage time to tie the game 1–1, and his team went on to win 4–1 in extra time to claim their tenth trophy in the competition; he was also chosen by fans as Man of the match. Ramos started 2014–15 season on 12 August 2014 by playing full 90 minutes in 2–0 success against Sevilla to win first trophy of the season, UEFA Super Cup.[31] He then played the two-legged Supercopa de España final against Atlético Madrid with Los Blancos losing 2–1 on aggregate.[32][33] Ramos scored first goal of the season on 31 August in week two of La Liga, a header in a 4–2 away loss against Real Sociedad. He scored in both the semi-final and the final of the 2014 FIFA Club World Cup in Morocco as Real Madrid won the tournament, and was voted the player of the tournament. On 17 August 2015, after months of speculation of a transfer to Manchester United, Ramos agreed a new five-year contract with Real Madrid, tying him to the club until 2020. He was also made captain after the transfer of Iker Casillas to FC Porto. On 20 December 2015, Ramos captained Madrid to a 10–2 victory over Rayo Vallecano, the club's highest scoring La Liga victory in 55 years. On 13 March 2016, Ramos received his 20th red card for Real Madrid in a 2–1 win over Las Palmas. He had earlier scored the game's opening goal with a header from an Isco corner kick. On 2 April, he returned from suspension in 2–1 victory against Barcelona at Camp Nou, where he was again sent off, receiving his 21st red card and fourth in a Clásico fixture. In 2004 Ramos became an instant hit for Spain's under-21, for whom he played six international matches. On 26 March 2005, in a 3–0 friendly win over China in Salamanca, he first appeared for the senior side at only 18 years and 361 days of age, making him the youngest player to play for the national team in the last 55 years. He held this record until 1 March 2006, when it was broken by Cesc Fàbregas in a friendly match against Côte d'Ivoire. On 12 October 2005, Ramos scored his first two international goals in a 6–0 away thrashing of San Marino for the 2006 FIFA World Cup qualifiers.[39] He was selected for the final stages in Germany and, after the international retirement of Real Madrid teammate Míchel Salgado, became the undisputed first-choice right-back. Throughout Spain's UEFA Euro 2008 qualifying campaign, Ramos was a regular member of the starting eleven as the national side finished first in its group, above Sweden. He scored two goals, including one in a 3–1 away win over Denmark, in 11 appearances. In the tournament's final stages, Ramos played in all matches and minutes, except the 2–1 group stage win against Greece. In the final, his pass nearly set up Marcos Senna's first international goal, but the latter missed his opportunity by inches. During the celebrations after the 1–0 defeat of Germany, he wore a T-shirt in honor of close friend and former Sevilla teammate Puerta, who died in August 2007. Ramos was selected in the squad for the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup in South Africa, as Spain finished in third position. On 3 June 2010, he captained Spain for the first time, in a 1–0 friendly win over South Korea in Innsbruck, Austria. At the 2010 World Cup, held in the same country, he started every game, helping the team keep five clean sheets and reach the final, which they won 1–0 against the Netherlands; he topped the tournament's Castrol Performance Index with a score of 9.79. Ramos returned to the heart of the defence for the Euro 2012 tournament. When asked about his role change, he replied: “I have adapted and feel comfortable in the middle, but I am a World and European champion at right-back.”[44] He played all the games in Poland and Ukraine alongside Barcelona's Gerard Piqué and, in the semifinals against Portugal, he converted his penalty shootout attempt in an eventual 4–2 win (0–0 after 120 minutes), scoring for the eventual champions in Panenka-style. On 22 March 2013, Ramos celebrated his 100th cap by opening the scoring in a 1–1 draw with Finland in Gijón for the 2014 World Cup qualifiers. He became the youngest European player ever to reach that figure in the process, surpassing Germany's Lukas Podolski.[3] In June, Ramos contested in the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup in Brazil, starting every match as Spain lost to the hosts in the final; he captained the side for their second group game, a 10–0 win over Tahiti at the Maracanã.[46] On 30 June, he missed a penalty kick in the 3–0 Confederations Cup Final loss to Brazil. Ramos was selected for his third World Cup in 2014.[48] He played the full 90 minutes of each of Spain's matches, each with a different partner in central defence, as the champions were eliminated.
