---
{}
---

CF					ITA	B	0.0	Regarded as one of the greatest strikers of all time, Piola was widely renowned for his goalscoring ability throughout his career, and his eye for goal.[11] He was considered to be a modern and well-rounded player during his time, as he used his physical attributes, intelligence, and control to play with his back to goal, and lay off the ball for team mates in order to provide them with assists.[12][11] Piola's vision, work-rate, and technical ability, as well as his passing ability, made him a tactically versatile player[13] who was capable of playing in several positions, and he was deployed on the wing, in midfield, or as a creative advanced playmaker on occasion.[12][11] Piola particularly excelled as a centre-forward, however; his speed, positional sense, and opportunism enabled him to lose his markers and receive his team-mates' deliveries or pounce on loose balls in the area. Piola was also known for his powerful and accurate finishing ability with his head and both feet, from any position on the pitch, which made him a prolific goalscorer throughout his career.[12][14][11] Due to his agility and athletic ability, Piola also excelled in the air, and he was capable of scoring spectacular acrobatic goals from volleys and bicycle kicks.[15][11] Despite his talent and his reputation, he was occasionally accused of diving throughout his career. Unlike his legendary international team-mate, club rival, and friend Giuseppe Meazza, [16] however, with whom he was often compared, [17] Piola was much more reserved both on and off the pitch, and he preferred to score through efficiency and pragmatism rather than flamboyance.		One of the stars of the Italian team which retained the World Cup in 1938, centre-forward Silvio Piola is regarded as one of the finest goalscorers the country has produced.  His performances across a long playing career meant that he set a goalscoring record in Serie A which remains unmatched almost 60 years after his retirement and his enduring fame means that not one but two of his former teams play in stadiums named after him. Born in the city of Robbio in northern Italy on 29 September 1913, Piola was first spotted by a local priest who watched him play.  Impressing with his speed, bravery, powerful shot and ability in the air, he was quickly signed up by nearby Pro Vercelli, one of the country's leading clubs at the time.  Piola first appeared in Serie A in a match against Bologna in February 1930, when he was still just 16 years old. During his time in Rome he became one of the first European players to become known for using the 'bicycle kick' and had a reputation for regularly scoring spectacular goals.