---
{}
---

WM	Enthusiastic	Creator	Winger	Liverpool, Real Madrid	ENG	B	80.0	A hard-working and technically gifted player, McManaman was usually deployed as a winger, or occasionally as a central midfielder; his preferred position, however, was that of a more offensive and creative attacking midfielder, an uncommon position in the Premier League throughout his career. McManaman was a quick, strong, creative, and energetic player, with good dribbling ability, as well as accurate passing and crossing ability with either foot, which allowed him to create chances for team-mates. He was often criticised, for his inability to score many goals, although he would later improve upon this element of his game during his career.		English footballer who played as a midfielder, winger and playmaker for Liverpool, Real Madrid and Manchester City. McManaman is the most decorated English footballer to have played for a club abroad, with the UEFA website stating that "of all England's footballing exports in the modern era, none was as successful as McManaman." After nine years at Liverpool, during which time he won the FA Cup and League Cup, McManaman moved to Real Madrid in 1999. The transfer became one of the most controversial and high profile Bosman rulings of all time.[6][7] He became the first English player to win the UEFA Champions League with a non-English club in 2000, and two years later became the first English player to win the Champions League twice. He also won La Liga twice before moving to Manchester City in 2003, and retiring from football in 2005. After his retirement he worked as a football pundit for Setanta Sports, ESPN and BT Sport. In 2008, he was ranked third in a Top 10 of the greatest British footballers to play overseas, just behind Kevin Keegan and John Charles.