---
{}
---

CF		Athlete			FRA	B	0.0			He featured in the France squad that won the 1998 FIFA World Cup on home soil. His early career was spent in France with the Breton clubs Stade Brestois and En Avant Guingamp before moving to AJ Auxerre, where he won the double of Ligue 1 and Coupe de France in 1996. He returned to Brittany with Stade Rennais with whom he won Ligue 1's Golden Boot. At a second spell at Auxerre he retained the Golden Boot in Ligue 1 and also won the Golden Boot for the 1997-98 UEFA Cup. That Summer he won the World Cup. Guivarc'h left France for Newcastle United of the Premier League after the World Cup but left after three months having failed to make an impact at St James' Park. He finished the season at Rangers FC of the Scottish Premier League with medals in the league, Scottish Cup and Scottish League Cup, of which he scored in the final. He then returned to Auxerre before retiring after the 2001–02 season with En Avant Guingamp. Despite goalscoring records in France and Europe to add to his World Cup medal, he was named as the Premier League's worst ever striker by the British newspaper Daily Mail,[1] in recognition of his brief and unsuccessful spell at Newcastle United.
Roger Piantoni	CF					FRA	C	0.0			3rd place at the 1958 FIFA World Cup with France. Finalist of the European Champions Cup in 1959 with Reims. Champion of Ligue 1 (France) in 1958, 1960 and 1962 with Reims. Top goalscorers in Ligue 1 in 1951 with Nancy (28 goals) and in 1961 with Reims. Champion of Coupe de France in 1958 with Reims. Champion of Coupe Mohamed V in 1962 with Reims. 37 caps and 18 goals for France between 1952 and 1961.