---
{}
---

CM					ENG	C	0.0		Liverpool boss Bob Paisley, in his first season in charge after replacing Bill Shankly, brought McDermott to Merseyside in November 1974. He made his Liverpool debut, along with Phil Neal, on 16 November, in a Merseyside derby with fierce rivals Everton at Goodison Park. Neither side could break the deadlock with both sides sharing the points. McDermott's first goal came in a 1-1 league draw with Burnley at Turf Moor on 8 March 1975. McDermott struggled for the next two years to get into the team or hold down a place once given his chance. Liverpool won the League championship and UEFA Cup in 1976 but McDermott did not play in enough matches during the season to pick up a League medal, although he was in the squad which won in Europe. Speculation mounted that he would move on in the summer of 1976, but instead he stayed at Anfield and became an integral part of the following season's triumphs. McDermott was a fixture in the 1977 side which retained the title. Meanwhile, his goal against Merseyside rivals Everton F.C. in the semi-final of the FA Cup, a turn and chip from the edge of the penalty area, was voted the Goal Of The Season by the BBC[citation needed]. That game finished 2-2, with Liverpool winning the replay. A subsequent success in a European Cup semi meant that Liverpool had reached the finals of both the FA Cup and European Cup, which were scheduled to be played at Wembley and Rome within four days of each other in May 1977. Victory in both would complete an historic "treble" which had never been achieved before. However, Liverpool were defeated in the FA Cup final by Manchester United which ended their "treble" dream. There was joy for McDermott four days later though when he opened the scoring in the European Cup final against Borussia Mönchengladbach as Liverpool won 3-1. A few months later, he scored a hat-trick in the second leg of Liverpool's victory over Hamburg in the 1977 UEFA Super Cup Final. Liverpool reached their first League Cup final in 1978 and this occasion was to prove memorable for McDermott for the wrong reasons. The first game at Wembley against Nottingham Forest F.C. ended goalless, but McDermott had a goal disallowed after the officials decided that team-mate Kenny Dalglish was in an offside position when McDermott struck his shot. In the replay at Old Trafford, after Forest had opened the scoring with a hotly disputed penalty, McDermott scored what he thought was the equaliser with a well-struck drive, only for the officials to deny him again, claiming he had controlled the pass with his arm. Forest held on to win 1-0 and McDermott offered to swear on oath in an after-match interview that he had trapped the ball legally with his chest. The replays showed that while Dalglish was, indeed, offside for the disallowed strike at Wembley, McDermott could count himself unfortunate to be penalised for handball for the goal which was ruled out in the replay. Consolation at missing out on the League Cup was found at the end of the season when McDermott featured in the Liverpool team which retained the European Cup thanks to a 1-0 win over Club Brugge at Wembley. The following season, McDermott scored one of Liverpool's most memorable goals.[citation needed] It came at Anfield in a League match against Tottenham Hotspur on 2 September 1978. Liverpool were defending a corner which was cleared from their own penalty area to striker David Johnson, who hit a long pass to the sprinting winger Steve Heighway on the left flank as McDermott started to chase forward. Within just a few seconds, the ball was in the Spurs net as Heighway raced down the line and crossed the ball, without stopping to control it, for McDermott to head home after a 70-yard run. This was the final goal in a 7-0 win. By the end of that season, McDermott and Liverpool were champions again and they retained the title in 1980, with McDermott also picking up the personal honour of being voted the PFA Players' Player of the Year as well as the FWA Player of the Year award - the first player to win the two awards in the same season. He scored another memorable goal against Tottenham that season, this time in the FA Cup, and at White Hart Lane, when he took a misplaced pass from Osvaldo Ardiles on the right hand corner of the penalty area, flicked the ball into the air and hit a lob-volley into the far corner of the goal. In 1981, McDermott featured as Liverpool beat West Ham United after a replay to win the League Cup for the first time and then featured in the team which defeated Real Madrid in the European Cup final. A further League title and League Cup would follow in 1982 but his place in the side was becoming less assured.	