  

The pacesetter in Real's midfield, who proved that he is equally valuable in eighth and sixth place, has extended his contract by another year. Great appreciation in the biggest club in the world. Kroos is ahead of Pascal Groß because of his good international performances.

  

CM Director Architect Real Madrid GER A 0.0 Kroos is dynamic and hardworking. He can play at the back of midfield or at the front, in the centre or on the flank. He could almost certainly play as a box-to-box midfielder in a 4-4-2 if he ever were asked to do something so archaic. He is creative without being flash, placing him fourth in the overall standings according to whoscored.com; the three players above him – Dante, Roel Brouwers and Luis Gustavo – are central defenders or defensive midfielders, placing him joint seventh in the overall chart. His ratio of 0.5 accurate through-balls per game places him joint second in the overall standings, behind only Diego of Wolfsburg. Bayern's sporting director Matthias Sammer said after Saturday's 9-2 win over Hamburg – in which, without irony, he criticised his side for conceding twice for corners – that Bayern had to make themselves machines for winning football matches; Kroos is essentially a machine for passing, excelling both in pass selection and execution. Given his willingness to close down opponents, he is the perfect attacking midfielder for Bayern. A member of Bayern Munich's first team at the age of 17, Kroos became a regular after an 18-month loan spell at Bayer Leverkusen, and won honours including three Bundesliga titles and the 2013 Champions League. After winning the World Cup in 2014, he joined Real Madrid on a six-year contract. He has been praised by journalists and former professionals as a player with all the qualities for the role of an attacking midfielder