---
{}
---

CM		Creator		Inter Milan	NED	B	0.0	Sneijder has been recognised as one of the classic playmakers of the 2010s. From his impeccable placement and confirmed ability to score from free kicks, Sneijder earned the reputation as a dead-ball specialist. Of short stature, he is quick and strong on the ball, and his passing range is enhanced by his ambidexterity. He was also a renowned for his powerful shooting from long range, with either foot. Sneijder was noted for his intelligence and great technical ability.		He was named UEFA midfielder of the season and one of the three best midfielders in the world for 2010 by FIFA. A product of the AFC Ajax Academy, he previously played for Ajax, with whom he won seven trophies and was awarded the Johan Cruyff Trophy in 2004. He was sold to Real Madrid for €27 million in 2007, winning La Liga in his first season with the club and later being sold to Internazionale for €15 million. At Inter, he won Serie A, the UEFA Champions League, the FIFA Club World Cup, and two Coppa Italia. After being sold to Galatasaray for €7.5 million in 2013, he helped the club win the Süper Lig in his first season, following with the capture of the Turkish Super Cup, after a 1–0 win against rivals Fenerbahçe. Sneijder previously represented various youth squads for the Netherlands. He is now a regular player for the Dutch national team, making his debut in April 2003 at the age of 18, and representing his country at the 2006, 2010 (where the Netherlands were defeated 1–0 in the final) and 2014 FIFA World Cups, as well as the 2004, 2008 and 2012 UEFA European Football Championships. Individually, he was awarded the 2010 Bronze Boot, the 2010 Silver Ball, and included in the team of the tournament for Euro 2008 and the 2010 World Cup, as well as named man of the match for six out of eleven games played by the Oranje at these two tournaments. With 120 caps, he is their second-most capped player of all time, after Edwin van der Sar.
Gerard Piqué	CD	Calm	Playmaker	Libero	Barcelona	ESP	A	86.4	Piqué is a modern defender, who combines strength with good technique and passing. Due to his height and physical attributes, he is good in the air. Although he is primarily deployed as a centre back, he is a tactically versatile player who is capable of playing as a defensive midfielder; he has also been deployed as a sweeper on occasion, showing similarities to German legend, Franz Beckenbauer, "and ipso facto earning the sobriquet ""Piquénbauer"" from fans and media alike. He has also occasionally been known to utilise his height as an additional attacking threat by advancing into more offensive positions"		