---
{}
---

WF		Winger			POL	B	0.0	As a player, Boniek was known for his blistering pace and acceleration. He was one of the best dribblers of his time and also displayed superb technique. Boniek start playing as a right-winger before switched to a free-role attacking midfielder, could go running on the left, right side or the centre. But still, His best performance would be appeared as a winger. His speed, dribble and vision to make many assists were always impressive.		Boniek first played at Zawisza Bydgoszcz and later at Widzew Łódź. He transferred to Italian football giants Juventus in 1982. With Juventus he won the Cup Winners' Cup and the European Super Cup in 1984 (scoring in the final of the former) and the European Cup in 1985. After finishing his professional career at Roma in 1988, he had a successful business career. The Juventus president Gianni Agnelli nicknamed him Bello di notte ("Beauty at night", which is a play on the title of the Buñuel movie Belle de Jour) because of his performances in European club tournament matches, which were played in the evening. Boniek was named by Pelé as one of the 125 Greatest Living Footballers and by FIFA as one of the 100 best-ever players. On 12 October 2009, he received a Golden Foot career award. “Zibi” Zbigniew Boniek was a symbolic Eastern European footballer during the 1980s. Arguably his best performance of his career for Poland came in a second phase match against Belgium where he scored a magnificent hat-trick, one of the best hat-tricks in World Cup history. Zibi was definitely one of the greatest stars in the tournament and appeared on many “Dream Teams” in papers and magazines in the wake of the World Cup. He was notable playing as an attacking trio with Michel Platini and Paulo Rossi in Juventus in their successful years. 